---
title: James Duncan Davidson
summary: Photographer (TED), developer, writer
categories:
- mac
- photographer
- software
- web
- writer
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

James Duncan Davidson. I'm a photographer, software developer, and writer. I co-own [a company](http://luma-labs.com/ "James' business.") that sells camera straps and I'm the staff photographer for [TED Conferences](http://ted.com/ "The TED conference site."). I travel a lot. In what seems like a previous life, I worked at Sun on Java stuff including [Tomcat][] and [Ant][]. I've worked on big Rails-based websites, and I've written several books for O'Reilly. Photography, however, is my main focus these days.

#### What hardware do you use?

On the road, I'm currently using a 13" [MacBook Air][macbook-air] and I love it until it chokes processing too many photographs or working with huge video files. My primary storage for projects in the field is a Thunderbolt LaCie [Little Big Drive][little-big-disk]. At home, I have a big early 2008 [Mac Pro][mac-pro] with 14GB of RAM, 24" [Cinema display][cinema-display], an [Epson 3880 printer][stylus-pro-3880], an [HP Z3200 printer][designjet-z3200], a Fujitsu [Scansnap S1500M scanner][scansnap-s1500m], a Epson [V500 flatbed scanner][perfection-v500], a [Wacom Intuos 4][intuos] tablet, and gobs of external storage, well over 30TB at this point with backups.

Of course I use an [iPad][ipad-3] and [iPhone][iphone-4] everywhere I go. They've become so essential to my daily computing experience that I do everything possible to make sure I can access data networks wherever I go in the world. I'm actually writing this on my iPad with a local Vodafone SIM in it while in a cafe in Qatar.

For photography and video, my primary cameras are the [Nikon D3S][d3s] and [D800][]. I love my [Fuji X100][finepix-x100], but it's a quirky beast and I don't recommend it unless you really want what it can do. I also have a set of Panasonic Micro Four Thirds cameras that I used to use a lot, but have been using less of these days.

#### And what software?

For media work: [Aperture][], [Lightroom][], [Photoshop][], [Final Cut Pro X][final-cut-pro-x], [Compressor][], [Acorn][], and [PhotoMechanic][photo-mechanic]. For software development: [BBEdit][] and [Xcode][]. I used to be an [emacs][] guy, but I've moved on to save my pinkies. Everything flows through [git][] and [GitHub][]. I install open source software using [homebrew][]. For writing, [iA Writer][ia-writer] and [Byword][]. For everything else, [1Password][], [Safari][], [Dropbox][], [Mail][], [iCal][], [Numbers][], [Pages][], [Keynote][], and [OmniFocus][].

On my iOS devices, I'm a huge fan of [Instagram][instagram-ios], [TweetBot][tweetbot-ios], [Instapaper][instapaper-ios], [Flipboard][flipboard-ios], [iBooks][ibooks-ios], and the [TED app][ted-ios]. And of course, [OmniFocus][omnifocus-ios], [iA Writer][ia-writer-ios], and [Byword][byword-ios] get a lot of use on iOS as well.

#### What would be your dream setup?

I'll likely be upgrading my field system to the latest and greatest 15" [MacBook Pro][macbook-pro] when the next one arrives so that I can better work with huge media files on the road, but I'll keep the 13" MacBook Air for lighter duties and café hacking. On the desktop front, I'm anxiously awaiting a new MacPro with multiple Thunderbolt connections so that I can migrate my home storage setup to a group of Thunderbolt arrays, like the Promise Pegasus.