---
title: Jason Babler
summary: Creative Director (MAKE), sculptor
categories:
- artist
- designer
- mac
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

My name is [Jason Babler](http://www.mantlestudios.com/ "Jason's website."). I'm the Creative Director at [MAKE](http://makezine.com/ "A DIY magazine."), essentially in charge of design, branding and video production for all of Make: Magazine, online properties and of course, Maker Faire. In my spare time, I sculpt monsters.

#### What hardware do you use?

I design with a [MacBook Pro][macbook-pro], with a [LaCie 324i][324i] screen for photo color correction. My mouse is a [Logitech M510 wireless][m510], fully mapped with hotkeys. I use a Belkin USB hub for all my My Passports (I neurotically make redundant backups now). When I illustrate, I use my [Cintiq 12WX][cintiq] tablet. When I shoot, I use a [Canon EOS Rebel T2i][eos-rebel-t2i].

When I sculpt, I use a set of [dental tools](http://www.sculpturedepot.net/clay-wax-tools/steel-tools.htm "A set of dental tools for sculpting."), silicone-tipped [Clay Shapers][clay-shapers], and an array of custom tools, rakes and loops I've made from guitar strings and steel hacksaw blades. 

I use [Super Sculpey][super-sculpey] and [Magic Sculp][magic-sculp], and hard waxes from Willow Wax. I use Smooth-On's Smoothcast resins and silicones.

I airbrush with an [Iwata HP-C Plus airbrush][hp-c-plus] and use variety of craft paints. I use an Epilog Laser engraver for leather bracelets and cutting out letters or nameplates out of Delrin plastic for statues. We use a [MakerBot 3D Printer][replicator] for small prototypes and I'm experimenting with creating a plastic posable armature you can print out for sculpting.

For staying alive on the road, nothing beats my [iPhone 4S][iphone-4s].

#### And what software?

Adobe CS6 for design ([Photoshop][], [InDesign][] and [Illustrator][]). I am teaching myself [Zbrush][] for 3D modeling with hopes to not only create 3D models for work-related stories but also to create 1/6 scale statues. I also use [Maya][] for hard-surface models (and for the iPhone games I've created), but I haven't touched it in a while, now that I have Engineering interns at MAKE.

[Transmit][] for FTP serves me well to this day. [OS X Mail][mail] for sorting through 8 email addresses. I'd be lost with [Dropbox][] to work on projects with people remotely. [Yojimbo][] is my junk box and I simply throw screenshots, PDFs and other riffraff into it for future ideas. 

#### What would be your dream setup?

The Cintiq 24HD touch is the top of my list. Give me a fully loaded MacBook Pro with Retina display and set me lo. 

For sculpting, I would love my own studio with space to stretch out, complete with full spray booth and my own Epilogue Laser, Shopbot and a MakerBot Replicator for home!

That'll do it :)