---
title: Andrew Kim
summary: Designer, dog lover
categories:
- designer
- mac
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm Andrew Kim, a lover of dogs and designer. I study product design but I don't let that define what I work on. I'm currently in school and I share my work and thoughts on my site, [Minimally Minimal](http://www.minimallyminimal.com/ "Andrew's website."). I dream of living in tomorrow.

#### What hardware do you use?

A setup starts with the work machine. I use a Mid 2010 15-inch [Macbook Pro][macbook-pro] daily to get all of my work done. It's got an i7 with 8GB of RAM and a 750GB Seagate Momentus XT hybrid drive. I've also removed the obsolete superdrive and added a second 500GB drive using a HDD caddy. Most of the time, my Mac is hooked up to a [27" Cinema Display][cinema-display], which is easily the best display I've come across. I type on a standard [Wireless Keyboard][keyboard] and use a [Magic Trackpad][magic-trackpad] for all of my work. People usually think that I use a Wacom tablet but I despise them. Apple's trackpads are brilliant and more than enough for most design work. I have a [Kanto SYD 5][syd-5] and a pair of [Shure SRH 840][srh840] that I use to listen to music while I work.

I also use my [retina iPad][ipad-3] and [iPhone 4s][iphone-4s] heavily. The iPad has been a great canvas to sketch with (I use a Wacom Bamboo stylus) and has become my primary mode of reading and research for my work.

My blog has made me become a hobby photographer and I use a [Fuji X100][finepix-x100] for all of my photos. I get to the various locations of my photos in my Nissan Cube.

#### And what software?

For most of my standard operations, I use the default Apple apps like [Mail][], [iCal][], [iWork][] and [Safari][]. I've also started using the brilliant [Fantastical][] to enter calendar information and use [YoruFukurou][] to go through my tweets. On my iOS devices, I live in [Tweetbot][tweetbot-ios], [Instapaper][instapaper-ios], [Paper][paper-ios] and [Evernote][evernote-ios]. [1Password][] is an app that I use across all of my devices and cannot live without.

For my design work, most of my time is spent in [Adobe's Creative Suite][creative-suite]. My layouts and renderings are finished in [Photoshop][] and the videos I have on the site are done with [After Effects][after-effects]. The 3D modeling of my product designs are done in [SolidWorks][] and rendered in there too. 

Photos from my X100 usually don't go through much post processing but this is all done in [Aperture][]. 

#### What would be your dream setup?

I dream of using a 13" [MacBook Air][macbook-air] as my main machine. I would love to throw all this crap out the window and have one machine that's light enough to carry in a tiny messenger bag. Sadly, it's simply not powerful enough for the work I do. I get so jealous when I sit at a coffee shop watching people on their Airs and iPads.