---
title: Jim Guthrie
summary: Musician (Sword & Sworcery, Sound Shapes)
categories:
- mac
- musician
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm [Jim Guthrie](http://www.jimguthrie.org/ "Jim's website.") and I'm a musician living and working in Toronto, ON. I've made all kinds of music for all kinds of things.

#### What hardware do you use?

I'm using a [Mac Pro][mac-pro] (2.66 GHz Quad-Core Intel Xeon with 12GB of RAM) and a [MacBook Pro][macbook-pro] (2.4 GHz with 4GB RAM), with two [Apple Cinema Displays][cinema-display]. I have a pair of [Yamaha HS80M][hs80m] monitors that go into an [RME Fireface 800][fireface-800]. I only have one mic pre at the moment (a [Great River MP-2NV][mp-2nv]) but it's great for mostly everything I throw at it. For mics I have a [Neumann TLM 103][tlm-103] and a [KM 184][km-184]. I also have an [SM7B][], a crazy [JZ V47][vintage-47] mic, a [Rode NT1][rode-nt1-a], and a bunch of others that I can't think of right now. For synths and MIDI controllers I use an [Arturia 'Laboratory'][laboratory] and a [Roland V-drum kit][td-4kx2] with mesh heads. I also use my [iPad 3][ipad-3], a [PSone][] with [MTV Music Generator][mtv-music-generator], and a [Casio SK1][sk-1].

I also have a buffet of acoustic and electric guitars, basses, banjos and ukuleles. Lots of other stuff, but those are highlights.

#### And what software?

[Logic 9][logic-pro] and [Garageband][] for day to day tracking of ideas. I've bought a ton of software in the last 2 years including Aurtria synth plugins, [Native Instruments Komplete][komplete], [Addictive Drums][addictive-drums], [Superior Drummer][superior-drummer], Waves plugins, UAD-2 card with lots of their stuff, SoundToys, Sugar Bytes, [Chipsounds][], [Motu Symphonic Instruments][symphonic-instrument], and a bunch of others!

The list goes on as well.

#### What would be your dream setup?

I pretty much have it. It'd be great to have more high end outboard mic preamps and compressors, but I do just fine with the mix of hardware and software I currently have. I'm at the point where I haven't even used some stuff I've bought because I have more than I need but I'm sort of addicted to plug-ins. Life is tough!