---
title: Eric S Raymond
summary: OSS developer, writer ('The Cathedral and the Bazaar')
categories:
- developer
- linux
- software
- writer
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm [Eric S. Raymond](http://www.catb.org/~esr/ "Eric's website."), aka "ESR". I wrote some of the foundational papers on open-source development and maintain over 40 open-source projects and FAQs. You rely on my software every time you use a browser, a smartphone, or a gaming console.

#### What hardware do you use?

A pretty generic Intel Core Duo 2 PC. The interesting details about my desktop setup are the peripherals. I like Model-M-style clicky keyboards (I'm typing on a [Unicomp Model M][model-m]). I prefer trackballs over mice and use a [Logitech TrackMan][trackman-marble]. I like lots of vertical pixels for my Emacs window, so I'm rocking a [Samsung SyncMaster 1100DF][syncmaster-1100df] at 1800x1440 with 120dpi.

My road machine is a [Lenovo Thinkpad X60][thinkpad-x60]; I'm a huge fan of the Thinkpad line. My smartphone is a [T-Mobile G-2][g2] running [Android][] 2.3.4.

Allow me to note a couple of hardware pet hates. Two-button mice and trackballs - lose! Displays with 16x9 aspect ratio - they're stretched in the wrong direction, vertically cramping my editor window and ergonomically poor for web browsing. Sadly, I expect to have to live with 16x9 in the future.

The desktop ensemble is rounded out with Logitech speakers and a hefty subwoofer, as I like intricate music playing while I hack (Liquid Tension Experiment playing now).

#### And what software?

[Ubuntu 11.10][ubuntu], but I loathe [Unity][unity.2] and [Gnome 3][gnome] (glossy, confining crap that keeps taking more and more control away from me) and am thinking about bailing out. Have gone to [XFCE][] over Ubuntu but might move to [Arch Linux][arch-linux] on my next machine.

Most of my screen time is spent in a terminal emulator, [Emacs][], and [Firefox][].

#### What would be your dream setup?

I'd replace the userspace drive on my PC with an SSD. Then I'd set up three 2560x1600 flatscreens (Dell UltraSharps or [NEC PA301Ws][pa301w] or the like) in a wraparound rack - I'd like even more pixels if I could get them.

I'd also like to have an Android 4.0 phone, and expect to get one within a few months.