---
title: John Myles White
summary: Statistics hacker, PhD student
categories:
- data
- developer
- mac
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm [John Myles White](http://johnmyleswhite.com "John's website."). I'm one of the authors of [Machine Learning for Hackers](http://shop.oreilly.com/product/0636920018483.do "The book that John co-wrote."), and I'm a Ph.D student in psychology. I spend most of my time trying to help people use statistics to understand the world around us.

#### What hardware do you use?

I mostly use either my 2008 [MacBook][], which has 4 GB of RAM and a 2.4 GHz Intel Core 2 Duo Processor, or my first generation [iPad][]. I've got a 2007 [iMac][] that I mostly use to watch movies, although it's also acted as a server at times.

#### And what software?

To stay in touch with the world, I use [Mail.app][mail], [Safari][], the [Mac Twitter client][twitter-mac] and [Reeder][]. I write notes to myself using [Evernote][]. I write all my blog posts using [MarsEdit][].

I use [Hazel][] to keep my files organized and I keep my PDF library organized using [Papers 2][papers]. My only complaint about Papers 2 is that it doesn't do the best job of figuring out when I have duplicates in my library, but I have the same complaint about iTunes. I also use the [Kindle app][kindle-ios] on my iPad to do most of my pleasure reading. I'm trying to move away from paper books to save space and the environment.

I write all my code using [TextMate 2][textmate]. The alpha release is a little brittle, but I've been a huge fan of TextMate ever since I first started building sites using [Ruby on Rails][rails], so I was really excited to see TextMate 2 leave the world of vaporware. If I'm working only at the command-line, I'll use [emacs][].

Most of my work involves programming, so programming languages and their libraries are the bulk of the software I use. I primarily program in [R][], but, if the situation calls for it, I'll use [Matlab][], [Ruby][] or [Python][]. Lately I've been programming a lot in a new language called [Julia][]. It hasn't even reached a 0.1 release yet, but it's often nearly as fast as C while still being as readable as Ruby. I'm hoping we have Julia ready to be a replacement for the computationally heavy programming that R isn't well-suited for in the near future.

That said, for me the specific language I use is much less important than the libraries availble for that language. In R, I do most of my graphics using [ggplot2][], and I clean my data using [plyr][], [reshape][], [lubridate][] and [stringr][]. I do most of my analysis using [rjags](http://www.johnmyleswhite.com/notebook/2010/08/20/using-jags-in-r-with-the-rjags-package/ "John's post on rjags."), which interfaces with [JAGS][], and I'll sometimes use [glmnet][] for regression modeling. And, of course, I use [ProjectTemplate][] to organize all of my statistical modeling work. To do text analysis, I'll use the [tm][] and [lda][] packages.

I've got a huge music library that keeps me using [iTunes][] a lot, although I've moved some of my listening over to [Spotify][].

I'm a big believer in [MySQL][] and like to use [Sequel Pro][sequel-pro] as a convenient GUI for editing databases.

To keep all of my files synchronized across the machines I own, I use [Unison][], a great program that seems to have never gained the traction it deserves. I also use [Dropbox][] to collaborate with other people, although I've started to use [Google Docs][google-docs] for a bunch of collaborative editing of [Word][] documents. When I need to write something mathematical, I use [MacTex][].

And, for version control, I use [Git][]. I'm moving increasingly towards keeping all the work I do in Git, including all the text I write.

#### What would be your dream setup?

For me, the main limiting factor in my work is always memory: either RAM or hard disk space. I'm working at [MSR](http://research.microsoft.com/en-us "Microsoft's Research center.") this summer and there's an urban legend that there's a machine with 2 TB of RAM here that some of the researchers have access to. Having a machine with that kind of power is really my ideal, although I could also benefit from more hard disk space. My other dream situation would be to have a small [Hadoop][] cluster running at home that's only for my own work.