---
title: Kellan O'Connor
summary: Engineer (SpaceX)
categories:
- engineer
- mac
- space
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

My name is Kellan O'Connor, I live in Manhattan Beach, CA and I'm currently an engineer at [SpaceX](http://www.spacex.com/ "A space transport company.") where I think about the design, layout and manufacturability of the main booster engines on the Falcon 9 rocket. I’ve also got a side-project called [Tetherboard](http://signup.tetherboard.com/ "A home automation company."), a soon-to-be-launched company that is developing app-controlled, home automation devices that will help change the way we use and control power at home. Been having a pretty good time with it all, and it's not bad living by the beach.

#### What hardware do you use?

At SpaceX I run an [HP z400 Workstation][z400] with a couple 30" HP [widescreen monitors][lp3065] and a [3D Connexion SpaceMouse][spacemouse-pro] for CAD/FEA navigation. Being able to quickly load large rocket engine assembly files and run [FEA](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Finite_element_method "The Wikipedia entry for FEA.") simulations locally are everyday tasks that the z400 does a good job of handling. Dealing with different sections of the rocket assembly at the same time can get a bit hairy, so in some instances I may run a second session off of a HP blade server.

At home I've got a 13" [MacBook Air][macbook-air] and an Acer Aspire notebook. The MacBook is used primarily for iOS development (TetherBoard) and the Acer, which was originally bought as a cheap travel laptop that I could abuse, now serves somewhat as a second monitor for pulling up articles, [Spotify][], and email while I work on the MacBook.

Beyond the above work setups, I’ve got an [iPhone 4S][iphone-4s] (16GB), which I use constantly. I’ve also got a [Kindle 3][kindle] to fall asleep to, and a [Go Pro HD HERO2][hd-hero2] for goofy surf and snowboard videos.

#### And what software?

I run [NX 7.5][nx] for mechanical design and ANSYS 14.0 for stress analysis. NX is great for dealing with large, detailed engine assemblies and both are pretty typical packages for an aerospace company. [Workbench][], one of the platforms that Ansys offers, has really made model generation, meshing and optimization much more streamlined than it used to be.  

When I need to, I do relatively simple web development in the newest [NetBeans IDE][netbeans], getting tips from other sites using [Firebug][], a browser plug-in that continues to impress me. I use [Xcode 4][xcode] regularly since I'm now immersed in the app-making world. The Xcode environment seems very intuitive to me, but then again I don't have much experience coding. 

I use [Gmail][] for personal email. I store and backup with [Dropbox][] and I use [Skype][] fairly frequently. On my iPhone I use [Path][path-ios], [Mint][mint-ios], [Evernote][evernote-ios], [Spotify][spotify-ios], [Instagram][instagram-ios], [Waze][waze-ios] and [Flipboard][flipboard-ios]. My collection of apps has been consolidated thanks to Flipboard.

#### What would be your dream setup?

I'm a minimalist so my dream setup involves having fewer things. Apple products are helping my cause because I can now do so much from my iPhone. It'd be ideal to me to have two devices that do everything I need (e.g. my iPhone and one other computing device), with large monitors setup wherever I happen to be working. I'd also love for the phone/computing device to be more rugged. I want it to be ok to drop things and get them wet. I'm excited about companies like [HzO](http://www.hzoinside.com/ "A technology for protecting devices from liquids.") and [Liquipel](http://www.liquipel.com/ "Another technology for protecting devices from liquids."), as well as Pantech with their [Element][] tablet that address these desires.