---
title: Kenneth Reitz
summary: Minimalist, photographer, developer (Heroku)
categories:
- developer
- mac
- web
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

My name is Kenneth Reitz. I'm a minimalist that loves APIs, web services, elegant design, and [Python][].

I'm the product owner of Python at [Heroku][] and a member of the [Python Software Foundation](http://www.python.org/psf/ "The Python Software Foundation's site."). I spend a large portion of my time writing code and prose while traveling.

I'm most well known for my [open source software](https://github.com/kennethreitz/ "Kenneth's Github account."), specifically [Requests][], Python HTTP for Humans. 

I'm also passionate about [digital photography](http://500px.com/kennethreitz/ "Kenneth's 500px account.") and [music production](https://vimeo.com/44188595 "Kenneth's Monome video.").

#### What hardware do you use?

I spend most of my time working on a quad-core i7 15" [MacBook Pro][macbook-pro]. It's the only computer I use, for both work and play. Using a single machine for everything is a bit of a pipe dream for me — I maintained a [crazy cluster of computers](https://sphotos.xx.fbcdn.net/hphotos-snc7/5135_110310080131_1578213_n.jpg "A photo of Kenneth's older computers.") in college.

It has 16GB of RAM and 1.25TB of storage. 250GB is provided by an Intel 520 SSD and 1TB is provided by a Western Digital HDD mounted in the optical bay with an OptiBay.

Most of the time I use my machine in a desktop configuration, hooked up to a 27" [Apple Cinema display][cinema-display] with a [Happy Hacking Keyboard Pro 2][happy-hacking-keyboard] and [Razer Naga][naga]. It sits atop an [Ikea Galant][gallant] desk while I sit atop an [Ergohuman Mesh][me8erglo] chair.

I scribble notes and mindmaps in a Moleskine Large Soft Squared notebook with the incredible [Rotring 800][800] mechanical drafting pencil. 

I need music to get work done. I'm typically listening to [KRK Rokit G2][rokit-5] monitors sourced from the fantastic [Apogee Duet 2][duet-2] DAC. At night, depending on what I'm listening to, I'm either using my open [Grado Labs 325i][sr325is] or closed [Bower & Wilkins P5][p5.2] headphones.

I also love to making music. My favorite piece of hardware is definitely my [Teenage Engineering OP-1][op-1] portable synthesizer. I take it with me everywhere I go. It's one of the best interfaces I've ever seen. For my home studio, I use a [MicroKORG][] as a MIDI controller and a [Monome Greyscale 64][sixty-four]. I use a [Blue Yeti][yeti] condenser mic for podcasts.

On the go, I use a [Retina iPad][ipad-3] with a [Cosmonaut Stylus][cosmonaut]. I usually have an [iPhone 4S][iphone-4s] + [BookBook][] and a [Kershaw Chive Pocket Knife][ken-onion-chive] in my pocket. 

I travel around with an [Incase Coated Canvas Shoulder Bag][coated-canvas-shoulder-bag] and [Boa Squeeze][boa-squeeze] backpack. If I want to have my iPad, Kindle, and Moleskine with me while leaving the laptop, I throw everything into the tremendously portable [Tumi Alpha Small Leather Flap Body Bag][alpha-flap].

I **love**  photo-journalistic and available light photography. I shoot with the [Canon 5D Mark II][eos-5d-mark-ii], paired with the [35mm f/1.4L][ef-35mm-f1.4l-usm], [50mm f/1.2L][ef-50mm-f1.2l-usm], [85mm f/1.2L][ef-85mm-f1.2l-ii-usm], and [135mm f/2L][ef-135mm-f2l-usm]. I also carry the fanatically small [Fujifilm x100][finepix-x100] with me everywhere I go. I use a [Wacom Intuos 4][intuos] for editing photos.

This stuff take up a lot of space. I store everything on a [Drobo FS][drobo-fs] NAS filled with 2TB 5-platter Hitachi Deskstar drives. I play everything on a [Boxee Box][boxee-box], which changed my life forever.

I usually play games with a hacked [PSP Go][psp-go] loaded with [NES][], [SNES][], and [Game Boy][game-boy] emulators. When I'm at my desk, I can play games like [Super Meat Boy][super-meat-boy] with my childood NES controller, thanks to [Retrolink][].

I tell the time with a Mondaine Swiss Railway watch.

#### And what software?

I write my software with Python, store it in [Git][] on [GitHub][], and test it with [Jenkins][]. My code is backed up hourly to [Amazon S3][s3] with [Arq][]. 

My websites, services, and apps are hosted on Heroku.

I [edit code](http://kennethreitz.com/sublime-text-2-love.html "Kenneth's love letter to Sublime Text 2.") in [Sublime Text 2][sublime-text] with the fantastic [Ubuntu Mono Font][mono-regular] in Tomorrow Night colors. I use [Zsh][] in the fantastically minimal [Terminal.app][terminal].

I write articles with [iA Writer][ia-writer], keep track of my task list with [Things CloudSync][things], email with [Sparrow][], manage travel itineraries with [Tripit Pro][tripit], tweet with [Tweetbot][tweetbot-ios] and [Twitter.app][twitter-ios], launch apps with [Alfred][], share files with [CloudApp][], mindmap with [MindNode][mindnode-pro], keep notes with [OneNote][] and [Evernote][], save websites with [Pinboard][], read subscriptions with [Reeder][], read long-form content with [Instapaper][], crunch numbers with [Soulver][], chat with [Textual][], draw with [Paper][paper-ios], and record screencasts with [ScreenFlow][].

I play my FLAC collection with [Enqueue][enqueue] and everything else with [Spotify][] while [scrobbling](http://www.last.fm/user/drummer42 "Kenneth's Last.fm account.") to [Last.fm][].

I edit photos with [Adobe Photoshop Lightroom 4][lightroom] and publish them with [Flickr][] and [500px][].

I sequence music with [Ableton Suite][suite-8], [Renoise][], and a few Native Instruments synths: mostly Razor, Massive, and FM8. I master samples and tracks with Cool Edit Pro… er, [Adobe Audition][audition] via an [Adobe Create Cloud][creative-cloud] subscription. 

Everything else: I use GitHub's [Gaug.es][gaug.es] for web analytics. I use [Cloak][] to keep my connections secure while on the go. I've been weaning myself off of Hacker News lately with [Prismatic][].

## What would be your dream setup?

I wish the [Microsoft Courier](http://news.cnet.com/8301-10805_3-20128013-75/the-inside-story-of-how-microsoft-killed-its-courier-tablet/ "A CNet article on the Courier.") were real. OneNote is an *incredible* note-taking platform, and I'd love to see it really shine in a dedicated device.

I want Fujifilm to make a full frame version of the x100 with a 35mm lens, excellent battery life, fast AF, and insane low-light capabilities.

Otherwise: No wires. More bandwidth. More memory. More disk space. More pixels. Infinite battery life.