---
title: Lisa Congdon
summary: Artist, illustrator
categories:
- artist
- mac
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm [Lisa Congdon](http://www.lisacongdon.com/ "Lisa's website."), and I am a fine artist and illustrator. I make most of my living as an illustrator of books, but I illustrate a lot of other things too. I paint, draw, collage and hand-letter, and I also design repeat patterns for things like wallpaper and fabric. I also keep a blog about my work, my life and things that inspire me.

#### What hardware do you use? 

I use an iPhone, a [2011 iMac][imac] with 21 inch monitor (and an [Airport Time Capsule][time-capsule] backup system), a [2012 Macbook Air][macbook-air], an [Epson V700 Scanner][perfection-v700], an [Epson Stylus Pro 3800 printer][stylus-pro-3800] (I sell archival quality prints of my work), a [Wacom Intuos 3 Tablet][intuos] and I own and use a [Nikon D5100 camera][d5100]. I can't mention all of that without also mentioning the most important hardware in my life: my paint brushes (I tend to use really cheap brushes because I go through them so often!), paint (I use Acryla Gouache), pencils (I've partial to regular #2 pencils, but I also use a [Pentel Twist Erase mechanical pencil][twist-erase] for detail work), Lineco Archival Glue, [Micron pens][pigma-micron] of every size, paper (too many kinds to name, including found vintage paper), and whatever good quality canvas, masonite and wood panels I can find on sale.

#### And what software? 

I use [Adobe Photoshop][photoshop] and [Illustrator][] for my illustration work. Most of my work is hand drawn, and even what ends up in vector starts as something I drew with a Micron on paper! I use Photoshop to clean up my work after I scan it, mostly. I use [Wordpress][] for my blog; I have a fantastic developer who maintains the back end. I'm not super tech savvy, I love how easy Wordpress is to use. I love [Twitter](https://twitter.com/lisacongdon "Lisa's Twitter account.") for connecting with people, promoting my work, sharing inspiration, and occasional rants. I also use a [Facebook fan page](https://www.facebook.com/pages/Lisa-Congdon-Art-Illustration/194642865181?ref=hl "Lisa's fan page on Facebook.") to share what I'm up to. I use [Gmail][] + [Google Docs][google-docs] for life in general. Google spreadsheets keep me organized! I use [Etsy](http://www.etsy.com/shop/lisacongdon "Lisa on Etsy.") and [Big Cartel](http://lisacongdon.bigcartel.com/ "Lisa on Big Cartel.") to sell my work online. 

#### What would be your dream setup? 

I am pretty happy with my current setup. As someone who does detailed touch-ups in Photoshop, I'd love an updated iMac with a big 27 inch monitor. I also dream of a large format scanner so I don't have to scan my work in parts and piece it together. I'm just waiting for a company to invent a great scanner for artists that is large format and relatively affordable. Also, I really need to get my hands on a [Bamboo Wacom Tablet][bamboo]! That might be my next purchase. And while we're at it, for all this stuff I'll need a larger desk, of course. At the top of my dream list? Something "old school": Huge flat files to store my original work.