---
title: Ben Welsh
summary: Reporter, web developer (LA Times)
categories:
- developer
- linux
- reporter
- web
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I am [Ben Welsh](http://palewi.re/who-is-ben-welsh/ "About Ben."). My Internet handle is palewire. I work as a reporter at the Los Angeles Times, where I use computer programming tools to collect, organize, analyze and present large amounts of information. At The Times, I'm part of an informal group known as [The Data Desk](http://datadesk.latimes.com/ "The LA Times' Data Desk.") which, put simply, turns databases into news. That means building [websites](http://palewi.re/apps/ "Ben's websites.") and writing [stories](http://palewi.re/clips/ "Ben's LA Times articles."). I recently gave [a talk about the scope of our work](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S62J6SssxNE "A video of Ben's talk about The Data Desk."), if you're interested in learning more.

I also chip in on open-source projects in my free time, most recently kickstarting an archive of news homepages called [pastpages.org](http://www.pastpages.org/ "An archive of the homepage of news websites.").

#### What hardware do you use?

Most of the time I use my [Lenovo X220 Thinkpad][thinkpad-x220]. I've loved laptops sized around 13 inches since the original fat Macbooks that came out five or six years ago. They're not too heavy to lug around, but still big enough to mash my fat fingers on. I use my laptop both at home and at work, plugging it into an external Dell monitor at both locations to add a bigger screen to work with.

#### And what software?

I have [Ubuntu 12.04][ubuntu] installed and use it for everything. Unlike every other developer on the planet, I actually like Ubuntu's new [Unity user interface][unity.2]. I think the Ubuntu team is dead on. They need a stark redesign to grow across the new, fragmented landscape of desktops, laptops, netbooks, tablets and smartphones. As a long-time user of [GNOME Do][gnome-do], and before that [Quicksilver][], the new quick launch options are right in my wheelhouse. I love it.

When I'm working, I tend to have a [Chromium][] browser open in the external monitor, plus a [Byobu terminal][byobu] and [gEdit][] text editor on the smaller laptop screen. I'm also a heavy user of the [Empathy][] chat application and [Banshee][] media player. I'll also often have a [Firefox][] window open as well, since it's the only Linux browser my employer's Microsoft mail system seems to work with. That tends to be a good spot to do music streaming from [Rdio][], my latest online addiction.

I write most of my code in [Python][]. My job calls on me both to build websites and to wrangle data for offline analysis. In both cases, I find myself using the Web framework [Django][] to manage and analyze the data, even if I don't plan on ever publishing a Web site. Though sometimes I'll drop down to raw SQL for a quick hit, or to skip past the chrome and focus on getting a really important query right. 

[PostgreSQL][] is my database of choice, mostly because of the awesome power of its [PostGIS][] extensions, which are easy to use thanks to Django's excellent [GeoDjango][] app. For something quick and dirty, I might substitute the lighter weight [SQLite][].

#### What would be your dream setup?

I'm happy with what I have for work. It's always nice to see the price to spin up servers in the cloud go down. It was a big hit to our team when Google App Engine [raised their prices so much](http://www.informationweek.com/news/cloud-computing/platform/231600672 "An article about Google raising their App Engine pricing."). 

I'm starting to feel like my smartphone, a two-year old [myTouch Slide][mytouch-3g-slide] that runs [Android][], might be a bit too much. It's great to be connected, and it could be a lifesaver in an emergency, but it feels a like an itch that my brain wants to scratch a little too often, pushing me to check my email or Twitter too frequently. I've yet to buy a tablet, though it seems inevitable. I wonder if it might be possible to revert to a dumb phone for calls and emergencies, but keep a 4G tablet in the backpack for Internet access. The dream, or perhaps delusion, is that I would still have access to all the great Web stuff I love, but I wouldn't pull it out as often if it was stowed away in a backpack. Am I nuts?