---
title: Missy Prince
summary: Photographer
categories:
- photographer
- windows
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm [Missy Prince](http://seaofempties.tumblr.com/ "Missy's Tumblr site.") and I'm a [photographer](http://www.flickr.com/photos/35336382@N00/ "Missy's photos on Flickr.").

#### What hardware do you use?

My hardware consists mainly of the cameras, film, and darkroom equipment I use: an [Olympus XA][xa], a [Mamiya 645 Pro][645-pro-tl], a [Mamiya 7ii][7ii], and various Polaroids. I almost always use Fuji Pro 400 film. I can't tell you much about the equipment in the darkroom because it isn't mine and I'm not knowledgeable about it. The key parts of my workflow center around taking photos and making prints from negatives, and at this point computers and scanners are only good for getting images online. I use a really old Dell PC that was given to me and a [Canoscan 8800f flatbed scanner][canoscan-8800f]. Pretty glamorous, I know. I probably won't upgrade to a decent computer until I'm forced to by the death of my current one.

#### And what software?

I just use the software that came with my scanner. [Arcsoft PhotoStudio][photostudio], it's called. I do very little post processing other than color correcting to match the prints. 

#### What would be your dream setup?

My dream setup would be a spacious color darkroom in my own house with a good sound system. Right now I rent time and equipment in a lab here in Portland. It's a thirty minute bike ride from my house, and I have to set up from scratch every time because other people use the equipment. It would be nice to walk into my own printmaking kingdom with everything as I left it and ready to go.