---
title: Colleen Wainwright
summary: Writer, speaker, consultant
categories:
- mac
- writer
credits:
  name: Chris Glass
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

For love, I keep a blog called [communicatrix](http://communicatrix.com/ "Colleen's website.") where I write about fear and change, and occasionally proselytize for the lifesaving Specific Carbohydrate Diet (like Paleo, only with less CrossFit and more fun).

For money, I write and speak about marketing. But if you've got something else...

#### What hardware do you use?

My main rig is a 15" 2.8 GHz, matte-screen [MacBook Pro][macbook-pro] from late 2009 maxed out with a 500GB hard drive and 8GB of RAM. But it's an all-new hard disk and RAM, as both went kaput on me last fall. (Right between two ginormous projects. Thanks, Universe.)

So I panicked and bought a 13" 1.8 GHz [MacBook Air][macbook-air] (4GB of RAM, 300MB drive). I don't really need two laptops, but is way easier to leave the MBP hooked up to the [Cinema Display][cinema-display], and as a tiny person, it's way easier to tote the Air. (I'm shoulder-carry all the way, on my second (and, it looks like, my last) Baekgaard messenger bag with an [Acme neoprene sleeve][the-skinny-sleeve-macbook-air] for the Air and peripherals, and a 10-year-old [Victorinox duffel][wt-duffel] for everything else. I believe one should not carry on luggage one cannot heft into the bins by one's own self.)

I have a few assorted LaCie hard drives for backup - two 500MB for bootable clones, and a 1TB for Time Machine. Really crap sound pours forth from a cheap set of Altec Lansing speakers and subwoofer. I have an [Airport Extreme][airport-extreme] for the network and a 13-year-old [HP 2100TN][laserjet-2100tn] that still prints snappy copies, bless its heart.

Phone-wise, I finally replaced my ATT [iPhone 3G][iphone-3g] for a [4S][iphone-4s] with Verizon back in May because I was tired of paying $90/month for what was essentially an iPod Touch. I also caved and bought the [iPad 3][ipad-3] with (unactivated) Verizon 4G. So far, I barely use it. I vastly prefer reading dead-tree books where I can, and where I can't, on my [Kindle 3G][kindle] (books are heavy!), but the possibilities for digital publishing on the platform were too tantalizing to forgo any longer. (See: [The Wasteland][the-waste-land-ios] and [Paperless][paperless-field-guide], the latter being the item that finally made me do it. Plus, hey, streaming [Netflix][] in bed!

I record the odd podcast or song on a [Blu Snowball mic][snowball], and scan drawings with an [Epson Perfection V30][perfection-v30]. I take photos for presentations and the blog with a [Panasonic Lumix DMC-TZ4][lumix-dmc-tz4]; it's outfitted with a 4GB Eye-Fi card and more than any other gadget I own, every time I use it, I feel like I'm living in the future. 

You will pry my [Logitech presentation remote][2.4-ghz-cordless-presenter] from my cold, dead hands.

For drawing and notetaking, I favor [PITT Artist Pens][pitt-artist] and a whatever's-on-sale 6x9" spiral-bound sketchbook. (I had a brief infatuation with Sharpie non-permanent pens when they came out, but the points smoosh too fast and the waste was making me crazy.) I keep a handwritten journal in the cheapest wide-rule spiral notebooks I can find, using a Waterman Phileas: red, medium-nib with blue ink. I also burn through a prodigious amount of old-school Sharpies and 3x5 index cards, both ruled and blank varieties. And I am almost never without a battered, beat-to-hell Field Notes notebook.

Oh, and I'm a firm believer in the adoption of an "analog desk" - a surface where one noodles or doodles or even writes, but never, ever on one's digital devices. Mine is a dining-room table fashioned from repurposed Indian railroad ties and the world's most shoddily soldered steel. Occasionally, I use it as a dining-room table, as well. (My actual desk is an ergonomic nightmare for a person my size - two file cabs and an IKEA top, plus a dining-room chair tricked out with cushions and a box on the floor to boost up my stubby legs. I am an uneasy mix of tightwad and spendthrift.)

I also make a half-gallon of outstanding full-fat yogurt (SCD-legal!) every week in a [Yogourmet][] yogurt maker. And eat it all. My colon is populated by the happiest, healthiest legion of good bacteria you'd ever want to meet.

#### And what software?

I'm running [Lion][mac-os-x] on the Air, because I'm lazy. The MBP is still on Snow Leopard because it was hard enough getting the HP to print on that, and because I steadfastly refuse to upgrade from [Adobe CS3][creative-suite]. (I mostly only use it for [Photoshop][] these days, but I like having the other apps JUST IN CASE. I mean, what if I woke up one day and wanted to design another logo and make it move or something? It could happen!)

For writing, I create drafts for almost everything - blog posts, essays, my marketing column for actors - in [MarsEdit][], although I'm revisiting [Scrivener][] for long-form writing, since using it to write a couple of chapters for an upcoming book. If I need to blather or copy/paste something quickly, I'll open a text file - [TextWrangler][] for my HTML needs, [TextEdit][] for anything else. I use [Word][] for the tracking feature and because everyone else does, but I hate it; [Pages][] is far nicer to work in, as full-on word processors go.

For email, it's [gmail][] plus [Mailplane][]. My [calendars][google-calendar] are Google, too, except for the birthday calendar generated by [Address Book][address-book]; I corral them with [BusyCal][]. 

I came up on [PowerPoint][] (for Windows!) back in the late '90s and stuck with it because my presentation workflow involved such a heavy use of Photoshop, I thought I didn't need the superior design features of [Keynote][]. And also, because, hey - the devil you know, right? But after the second time a show quit midstream because it had gotten too big for PPT to handle, I forced myself to switch last fall. Holy mackerel - what a difference! I feel like I should hold a funeral for all that dead time I'll never get back. Also, I no longer have to worry about my laptop bursting into flames from processor freakout.

I pay for [Evernote][], as I did for [Skitch][], before they bought it; it's a killer combo for clipping examples of social media done right (and, too often, egregiously wrong) for presentations, as well as saving and/or quickly resizing almost anything else. 

My default PDF application is [PDFPen Pro][pdfpenpro]; once you've lived with the highlighting and signature features, it's hard to go back to [Preview][], and I gave up on [Acrobat][] years ago. I use [VueScan][] for scanning, without which I would have hurled something through a wall long ago.

Internet-wise, I'm a [Chrome][] gal; fell in love with that omnibar, and that was that, although I do use [Safari][] to watch streaming Netflix. Still, I reserve my deepest, fondest, sexytimes Software Luv for [TextExpander][]. I would run off and marry TextExpander, if only it would ask.

Rounding out the desktop experience, I use [QuickBooks][] for invoicing and because it makes my bookkeeper happy and hoo BOY, do I want to keep her happy. And I am as good at adding things to [OmniFocus][] as I am bad at following through on them. However, I am bad ubiquitously - on the desktop, iPhone, and now, the iPad - which I feel counts for something.

On the iPhone, I'm mostly about native apps: [Mail][mail-ios], Phone, [Messages][messages-ios], and Voice Memos, which reside in my menu bar, and the Music, Calendar, Maps, and Photos apps. Although I have an inexplicable fondness for, god help me, [GroceryIQ][grocery-iq-ios]. (Oddly, I rarely use [Safari][safari-ios]; I've thought about moving it deeper into the phone, but it feels like sacrilege.) 

I also love love love [Instapaper][]; I have a bunch of RSS readers, but don't like any of them, so I wait to read in [Google Reader][google-reader] at home. I take notes in [Simplenote][simplenote-ios] and have, like, eleventy-billion timers and alarms in [Due][due-ios]. I've tried a number of photo apps, but usually end up using the plain, old Camera app. 

#### What would be your dream setup?

I'd love to get back down to one computer and a phone. And I'd like the computer to be keyboard-sized and light as a feather, but I'd like for there to be a big, beautiful screen to plug into anywhere I went.

Mostly, though, I'd like to have a more organized brain and streamlined, efficient work system. The older I get, the more I see that any problems I have lie (or is it "lay"?) within myself.

But just so I don't go out on a totally squishy note, I'd like my one computer and one phone to live with me and a friendly, medium-sized dog in a tiny house on the Central Coast of California. 

There - I'm right back to being as big a selfish, materialistic jerk as anyone who ever drew breath.