---
title: Gabriel Roth
summary: Writer, web developer
categories:
- developer
- mac
- web
- writer
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

[I'm](http://gabrielroth.com/ "Gabriel's website.") a novelist - my first book, _The Unknowns,_ comes out from [Reagan Arthur Books/Little, Brown](http://www.reaganarthurbooks.com/ "Gabriel's book publisher.") in July 2013. The book's about a computer programmer, and in the course of writing it I learned some programming and started doing freelance web development. I'm [@gabrielroth](http://twitter.com/gabrielroth "Gabriel's Twitter account.") on Twitter.

#### What hardware do you use?

I write on a 17" [MacBook Pro][macbook-pro] from 2007. I took out the SuperDrive and replaced it with a second hard drive in an MCE OptiBay. I leave it in my locker at the [Brooklyn Writers' Space](http://www.brooklynwriters.com/ "An office space for writers in Brooklyn."). 

At home I use a third-generation [iPad][ipad-3], which I like better than a laptop for casual emailing, Twitter, and [Instapaper][] reading, i.e. all the things I might want to do on a computer when I'm not working.

While I'm working, I'm usually listening to music through a pair of [Sennheiser HD201][hd-201] headphones, which sound good, feel pretty comfortable, and cost about $20. 

#### And what software?

#### Writing

I wrote _The Unknowns_ in [Microsoft Word][word]. At some point I started wishing I was using something else, but I didn't want to stop working to switch to a different program. The publishing industry is locked into Word's Track Changes feature, so lately I've been using it for revisions and edits.

I'm writing the next book in [Scrivener][]. At this point Scrivener feels a bit overdeveloped, but at least it's bloated with features for writers rather than ... actually, I have no idea who most of the features in Word are for.

While writing I turn off the Internet using [Freedom][]. When I'm writing something shorter than a book I alternate between [Bean][] and [BBEdit][]. Everything work-related is backed up to [Dropbox][].

#### Development

Nothing unusual: text editing in BBEdit, version control with [Git][], FTP with [Transmit][], database fiddling with [Sequel Pro][sequel-pro], image editing with [Acorn][].

#### General

[LaunchBar][] is the proverbial First Thing I Install. I was an obsessive [Quicksilver][] user back in the day, and then I switched to LaunchBar during that dark period when QS wasn't being supported. Now Quicksilver's back in active development but I can't be bothered to retrain my fingers.

Cultured Code's [Things][] basically runs my life. [MacBreakZ][] helps me keep my chronic RSI issues under control. And for various system tasks, in order of how quickly I notice if they're missing: [Zooom2][zooom], [Path Finder][path-finder], [FastScripts][], [Jumpcut][], [Synergy][], [Hazel][], [Fantastical][], [Flux][f.lux].

#### What would be your dream setup?

__Hardware:__ I need a laptop because I have to schlep it from my locker to a cubicle every day, so I can't fantasize about a 30" screen or anything like that. It would be nice to have a new laptop with all the features Apple's added since I got this one: unibody construction, solid-state storage, a retina display. It would be especially nice if I could still have a 17" screen - I hope Apple isn't killing them off forever.

__Software:__ If a programming genie granted me one wish, I'd ask for a file format between plain text (and variants like Markdown) and RTF.

All I need to write a novel is plain text plus italics, boldface, small caps, and block quotes. (I could live without the last two if I had to.) I don't need to specify fonts or import images or fuck around with line spacing. 

If I use plain text, I don't get italics or boldface. Italics are part of the toolkit, and not having them (as in a plain text file) is like a piano with no black keys. And I use boldface type to make notes to myself like __[tk need a better sentence here]__ that I know I'll spot before sending the document out.

But if I use rich text, my file specifies the typeface and point size, the margins, the line height - all this stuff that's properly the responsibility of the designer and that isn't relevant until my job is over. I want to be able to change the way the text displays without affecting the file itself, as I can in a text editor.

If the genie gave me another wish, I'd ask for a DVCS that's easy enough for non-programmers to use. Version control is a solved problem, and the fact that publishing professionals are using Word's change-tracking feature is a massive failure.

The third wish would be for infinite wishes.