---
title: David Cramer
summary: Developer, infrastructure nerd (DISQUS)
categories:
- developer
- mac
- web
- windows
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I lead infrastructure development at [DISQUS][], as well maintain and drive many of the open source initiatives. In addition I also develop [Sentry][], and operate [GetSentry.com](https://www.getsentry.com/ "The website for Sentry.") in my spare time.

#### What hardware do you use?

I work on several machines, all wired up with various fancy cloud syncing technologies.

At the office, I have a 27" [iMac][], as well as a 15" [MacBook Pro][macbook-pro] which travels with me between home, work, and play. While the iMac is new, and hasn't been upgraded yet, the two year old MacBook is running a 2.4 GHz Intel Core i5, 8 GB of memory, an Intel X25-M SSD, and a secondary storage 500 GB disk (to replace the optical drive).

While I'm at home I have a custom built Windows PC, specifically built for trolling people in [StarCraft II][starcraft-2]. It has a slightly outdated Intel Core 2 Duo, an EVGA GeForce 460 GTX, 8 GB of memory, and an Intel 320 Series SSD, as well as another 6 TB of storage.

On the go I still run an [iPhone 4][iphone-4] to keep up with Twitter and email. Additionally I just acquired a fantastic new [Sony NEX-5N][nex-5n] for upping my game in amateur photography.

#### And what software?

My Mac's run nearly identical software. For keeping my life sane, I use the [Twitter Mac client][twitter-mac], [Sparrow][] for email, [Adium][] and [Skype][] for messaging, and [Linkinus][] for communicating via IRC. Additionally I use [Sublime Text 2][sublime-text] for coding and [iTerm 2][iterm2] as a terminal replacement. For minor utilities I run several little apps, including [CloudApp][], [DropBox][], [Caffeine][], [iStat Menu 3][istat-menus], and [Viscosity][].

For my Windows machine, I try to keep everything mostly familiar. I don't bother with Twitter, email, or IM (other than Skype), but I use [mIRC][] for IRC. I also avoid running a development environment, so I simply use [Putty][] to SSH into one of my other machines (or servers) to get what I need done. Of course I also run DropBox and Viscosity as well on Windows. I'm also an extremely heavy user of [Steam][] for purchasing the numerous games that I never play.

#### What would be your dream setup?

My dream setup wouldn't be too far off from what I have. I'd love to swap out my home desktop machine with a Mac, but unfortunately they haven't quite broken into the gaming industry all the way yet. I would also switch the iMac at the office for a very high specced Mac Desktop, as well as upgrading the MacBook Pro to the new Retina display.

It's also likely I'd throw a few other random devices around, which I'd already own if it wasn't for the fact that I'd never use them, including an [Apple TV][apple-tv] and one of the new [Surface][surface-rt] tablets.