---
title: Neha Narula
summary: PhD student, data scientist, developer
categories:
- developer
- linux
- mac
- student
- windows
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm [Neha Narula](http://pdos.csail.mit.edu/~neha/ "Neha's website."). I'm a PhD student at MIT in [Computer Science](http://www.csail.mit.edu/ "MIT's Computer Science department website."), studying distributed, scalable databases and storage systems. I'm also interested in how we find and consume news on the web. This summer I was a data scientist at [Digg][] (formerly News.me).

In a previous life I was a Software Engineer at Google, where I worked on [Native Client][native-client], [Blobstore][], and [Froogle][].

#### What hardware do you use?

For research I use a modern PC running [Ubuntu][]. The rest of the time I use a 13 inch [MacBook Air][macbook-air] from October 2010, which I adore with all of my being. For running experiments, I spin up servers on [Amazon EC2][ec2] or use a 48 core Linux machine we have in our lab.

If I'm going to be typing a lot, I need my [Kinesis Advantage][advantage-usb]. I've had RSI problems in the past and this keyboard, though it looks strange, has helped a lot. There was a two week frustration period when I switched, but I can type much faster now. I have made the [right Control key sticky](http://alumni.media.mit.edu/~nelson/misc/kinesis-quickref.html "A reference for useful Kinesis keyboard combinations."), which helps a lot with [emacs][].

I have an [iPad 2][ipad-2] and a [Samsung Nexus S][nexus-s], which is starting to show its age. I use a [Revo HTPC][aspire-revo] running [Windows 7][windows-7] connected to my TV for watching movies and TV. It's not ideal.

For thinking, I usually have a full-sized Rhodia notebook and a decent pen. Nothing beats writing to get the mind flowing, but I find that I need to feel like it's ok to mar the clean blank pages.

At home I have [B&W CM5 speakers][cm5], an [Anthem 225 integrated amp][integrated-225], a [Music Hall 25.2 DAC][dac25.2], and a record player. I download high bitrate MP3s or FLAC and hook up my laptop or the Revo to the DAC using USB. I just got a [Logitech Harmony 650][harmony-650] remote to replace my TV, cable, and amp remotes.

#### And what software?

On my research machine I basically live inside [Chrome][], emacs, a terminal, and [git][]. I use the common assortment of unix commands, and [screen][] on almost every server to maintain my state. To make it easy to work anywhere I [ssh][] into my Ubuntu box from my MacBook Air and resume where I left off. I mostly program in [C][], [C++][c-plusplus], and [Python][].

At Digg, I finally started properly programming on my Mac. I used [Firefox][]/Chrome to maintain my work/personal gmail sessions, [Hipchat][] to keep in touch with my team, [iTerm][iterm2] full screen, Emacs, and [iPython][].

Within Python I used [scipy][], [numpy][], and [matplotlib][] a fair amount this summer. Once you know how, it's really easy to quickly plot data. If I need a quick webserver, I'll use [Flask][] or [Tornado][]. If need a datastore I'll use [MySQL][] or [Redis][].

I use [RescueTime][] on all my machines to get a rough idea of how much work I'm getting done each week. It can be depressing to realize how much time you spend dealing with email.

I use [SizeUp][] to use keyboard shortcuts to move windows between monitors and position them effectively. I use [Evernote][] to store all of my random thoughts and lists because it syncs so effortlessly. There's no Linux version so on my Ubuntu box I use the web app in Chrome, which could be better. I also love the [Evernote Web Clipper][evernote-web-clipper] Chrome extension; I can use it to easily save research ideas and things I want to buy later. Mightytext is another great Chrome extension -- I use it to see and respond to text messages and missed calls on my computer while I'm working, because I usually end up leaving my phone in my bag on silent and forget to check it for 8 hours at a time.

I use [Pocket][] as a read-it-later service, but I've found that I never actually go back to read what I've saved. It seems to be write-only.

My iPad is completely a consumption device; I mostly use the [Kindle app][kindle-ios], [Zite][zite-ios], [Twitter][twitter-ios], [Mail][mail-ios], [Chrome][chrome-ios], and [Safari][safari-ios].

#### What would be your dream setup?

Ideally I would use my mouse as little as possible. It's slow and makes my hands hurt -- I wish more software had keyboard shortcuts.

I wish that apps worked better together on my iPad. I like the Android way that any app can create a hook to handle sharing -- I wish iOS did this too. As an example, I would rather use the Chrome app as the default to open all links.

I also want a non-crippled home media system that is clean, simple, and beautiful. The idea that hardware providers have to make deals with services that I order and pay for is ridiculous (it's even worse when they try to charge me for the pleasure; [Xbox Live][xbox-live] I'm looking at you). If I have a [Netflix][] account, it should just work on everything.