---
title: Flourish Klink
summary: Story-teller, lecturer, IF writer
categories:
- game
- mac
- writer
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm [Flourish Klink](http://www.madelineklink.com/ "Flourish's website."). I'm Chief Participation Officer for [The Alchemists Transmedia Storytelling Co.](http://www.thealchemists.com/ "A storytelling company.") That means that I go around and talk to people in the entertainment industry about how to get folks more involved in their storyworlds, sometimes in lectures, sometimes in workshops, sometimes one on one. I also end up doing a fair amount of writing in-character Facebook updates et cetera, and even some basic interaction design.

Mostly I work in Rio de Janeiro and LA. I'm also the Minister of Magic for Ascendio 2012, a *Harry Potter* [fan conference](http://www.hp2012.org/ "A Harry Potter conference."). That means I'm the head of the concom - "the Galleon stops here." Sometimes I teach courses at MIT. Finally, I'm an author of both interactive and non-interactive fan fiction for a variety of stories (right now I'm working on something based on *Lord of the Rings*). Basically, I'm a professional fan.

#### What hardware do you use?

My primary computer is a [MacBook Pro][macbook-pro] from about a year ago - a 15-inch Intel core i7.  It plugs into a 10 port USB hub into which is also plugged an ancient 17-ish-inch Dell monitor (so old that I can't find a link for it). I also use a [Logitech Performance Mouse MX][performance-mouse-mx] when I'm at my desk. It backs up to a 750 GB [Seagate Freeagent GoFlex][freeagent-goflex] external hard drive. 

I have a slightly weird desk setup, due to how small my condo is. My desk is a plain foldable table (the kind with vinyl wood-grain on top and brown metal legs) which slips underneath my kitchen's black granite breakfast bar. The breakfast bar (which is a height to sit at on a stool) overhangs the desk by about 8 inches, and my monitor and currently-being-consulted books sit on the breakfast bar. Then the laptop, USB hub, and miscellaneous other crap is on the desk itself. It means that I use my laptop's keyboard to type on, and my displays are set up one on top of the other, the laptop's below and the Dell monitor above. I sit on a knock-off black Eames Eiffel Base chair.

For portability, I also use a white [Acer Aspire One ZG5][aspire-one-zg5] as a netbook (I would rather have had Linux on it, but it was a gift); it has an extended capacity battery which makes it much longer-running. I carry my [iPhone 3G][iphone-3g] with me at all times - it's the first 3G model, so it's pretty old by now. I absolutely could not live without my [Discovery 975 Plantronics Bluetooth headset][discovery-975] - whenever I'm on the phone, it's in my ear, and I have two charging cases for it so I can go 15 hours of constant use without having to plug anything into a wall. (It's the same model as Nick Fury uses in the Avengers, by the way.) I use ancient foldable Skullcandy headphones or the regular Apple ones - I'm no audiophile - and when I work out I have a little gold 2gb [iPod shuffle][ipod-shuffle].

Until recently I was a [FitBit][] devotee - I ran mine through the wash recently and haven't gotten a new one yet, but they really help me remember to take breaks and stand up instead of working at my desk all day. I do a lot of my reading on a [Kindle Keyboard][kindle] (mine doesn't have 3G). I also rely on a [Nooka Zub Zot watch][zub-zot-20] to tell the time most days, especially when I'm teaching and don't want to pull out my phone to look at the time.

(I also have an [Xbox][xbox-360] with [Kinect][] and a [PS3][], but those are for fun, not for work. Ask me about FEZ!)

#### And what software?

I am slowly trying to wean myself off Google, so I always have [Mail][] open. I have a goal of running my own mail server sometime soon and doing things through the [Terminal][], but I'm not there yet, so it's sort of hobbling along. I use [NewsFire][] as an RSS feed reader. [Skype][] is almost always open so that I can speak with my colleagues in California and Brazil - we're working on getting a FlourishCam installed so that I'm virtually in the LA office at all times. [iCal][] is good enough for my calendar, but I support it with [Fantastical][], which is a truly fantastic app for anyone who doesn't have an assistant. My browser is typically [Firefox][].

I do a lot of word processing in [Pages][], because (1) I hate the [Office][] suite with the burning fire of a thousand suns; (2) [OpenOffice][] makes ugly documents, and (3) despite having a lot of feelings about how important free software is I never seem to put my money where my mouth is. Also, I spent many years using [LaTeX][] for all my word processing needs and got used to pretty kerning, but now I have to do too much odd formatting for LaTeX to be at all time-efficient. This is particularly important because when you're at a con, you need one canonical paper copy of all the important documents, agreements, etc. so that if the concom gets run over by a bunch of trucks someone else knows what's going on - and I like that paper copy to look nice. Plus, again, entertainment industry. People care about the packaging, not just the ideas.

I also use [Keynote][] very frequently - at first, I hated making decks, but now I see how useful they can be for communicating things best shown graphically. For long-format writing, I usually use [Scrivener][], which is a complete godsend - seriously, if you are a fiction writer and you're not using Scrivener, what's wrong with you? It's the main reason that I can't envision myself switching away from Macs anytime soon. I also use [Final Draft][final-draft] to read and work on scripts - it's the industry standard.

Mostly if I need to use a spreadsheet it has to be shared with other people (ex: conference budgets) so then I just swallow my Google-grudge and use [Google Docs][google-docs]. [Preview][] is good enough for my PDF viewing and annotating. If I'm coding something I use [TextWrangler][]. [Fetch][] is my FTP program. Very rarely, I use Freedom to force myself to get a boring task done. [Mudlet][] is my MUD client, and [VLC][] makes my life easier on many, many levels. I also find myself taking lots of photos in [Photo Booth][photo-booth] for some unknown reason. I'm hoping to soon catalog my and my partner's 3k+ books and movies using [GCStar][].

Mobile, I use [Instagram][instagram-ios] (who doesn't?) and [Pocket MBTA][pocket-mbta-ios] to help me get around in Boston.

#### What would be your dream setup?

I'd probably get two 27-inch [Thunderbolt displays][thunderbolt-display] - I'm always, always longing for more desktop real estate, because I'm so frequently comparing four or six different documents at a time. I'd plug them into a [MacBook Air][macbook-air] and a giant external hard drive of some sort - probably a Seagate, I've had good luck with them - and I'd be able to ditch my USB hub. I actually don't have any reason to have a higher-powered computer than a MacBook Air, since I don't do much non-console graphics-heavy gaming these days, plus it would mean that my mobile + non-mobile computers were the same thing, which would make my life a lot easier.

I'd add a [Das Keyboard Model S Ultimate Silent Keyboard][model-s-ultimate] but stick with my existing mouse. I'd also upgrade my iPhone to a 4GS and add a [physical keyboard case][bluetooth-sliding-keyboard-case] or possibly switch to an [Android][] - depending on whether I actually got my mail server working. If we're dreaming, I'd also like to add [a Tread][the-tread] to [a standing desk][terra] so as to stay active while I work; I feel like my brain goes better when I'm walking around. I'd also need to have a space to put it, of course, and that would involve moving to a larger place (my 650 square foot condo ain't working for that), which would probably mean an office with built-in bookcases and and and....

Finally, if we're talking about gaming... I sure wouldn't mind a Gauntlet 2 cabinet to play on my breaks. (I'm actually, genuinely in the market for that, so if anybody knows of one for sale in New England...)