---
title: Mark Richardson
summary: Editor-in-chief (Pitchfork)
categories:
- editor
- mac
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm Mark Richardson, the Editor-in-Chief of [Pitchfork](http://pitchfork.com/ "A website about music."), an online music magazine. I'm responsible for the editorial on Pitchfork and work with our in-house editors and writers and freelancers on news, reviews, and features. I write a column on Pitchfork called [Resonant Frequency](http://pitchfork.com/features/resonant-frequency/ "Mark's column on Pitchfork.") and also wrote a book called [*Zaireeka*](http://www.amazon.com/Flaming-Lips-Zaireeka-Mark-Richardson/dp/0826429017 "Mark's book about the Flaming Lips album 'Zaireeka'."), about the Flaming Lips album of the same name. I've also freelanced for newspapers and magazines for a number of years. I've lived in Brooklyn for seven months and spent four years in Chicago before that. I tumbl at [markrichardson.org](http://markrichardson.org/ "Mark's website.") and tweet [@_markrichardson](https://twitter.com/_markrichardson "Mark's Twitter account.").

#### What hardware do you use?

My computer is a 15" [MacBook Pro][macbook-pro] running Lion and I have a 16GB [iPhone 4S][iphone-4s]. For listening to music at work, which I do pretty much all day, I have Sennheiser [HD 280 Pros][hd-280-pro] plugged into a [NuForce uDAC2 Digital Audio Converter][icon-udac-2]. The DAC is kind of an indulgence and is a recent purchase, but I've been very happy with it and I think it improves the sound. The 280s are a little hard to drive and the Mac's on-board DAC and headphone amp sometimes seem like they are straining a little bit. For mobile listening on my iPhone I use [Koss PortaPros][porta-pro]. I have a portable 1TB Western Digital hard drive for my music. 

At home, I tend to listen to music on the stereo in my living room and rarely on headphones. I have an inexpensive Sony Receiver from the late 90s, a Sony DVD player that I use when I listen to CDs (which is not often), and a mid-80s Yamaha P-500 direct drive turntable with an [Ortofon 2M Red][2m-red] cartridge. My speakers are Cambridge Soundworks Ensemble IIs that I've had for about 12 years. 

I mostly listen to vinyl at home, but sometimes listen to mp3s. I have an inexpensive Acer PC with an external drive that has a duplicate of my mp3s, and I stream those to the living room stereo through Apple's [Airport Express][airport-express].

#### And what software?

For writing, I use Apple's [Pages][]. For me it's the right combination of ease of use and functionality. For longer pieces, I also use [Freedom][], which turns off the computer's internet access so I'm not tempted to check email. Finding ways to write without distraction is a constant challenge and Freedom helps a lot. 

I use [Evernote][] for ideas and to make notes in meetings. It's also a great tool when I'm covering a live show, because you can embed photos, sounds, and text into a single document. I use [Wunderlist][] for tasks, mostly for its simplicity. And I use [Google docs][google-docs], and synchronize Apple's calendar with [Google calendar][google-calendar]. Google docs is an excellent tool for collaborating with writers and sharing edits. We make regular use of AIM (for me, via [iChat][]) in the Pitchfork office. We're communicating between three offices and with freelancers so IM is kind of a necessary evil. 

I use [Gmail][] and Priority Inbox is a must for me since I get probably 200 or 300 emails a day, many of which are press releases or emails from bands and publicists. Right now i have 41,000 unread emails in my Inbox, but Priority Inbox does a good job of figuring out what I need to see. So that saved me 41,000 keystrokes I would have needed to archive those. I use [iTunes][] for mp3s. 

#### What would be your dream setup?

I'm pretty happy with my computer hardware as it stands. In terms of software, I dream of having all my needs integrated into a single program. Something that combines all of the above software into one and integrates all the functions in an intuitive way. I feel like Evernote has a pretty good jump on this kind of thing, and if they figured out a way to add a few more functions and make it work seamlessly with Google's office apps that would be a big step. 

For my stereo, my dream set-up would be a nice NAD integrated amp, a good D/A converter to use with AirTunes, and a [Technics 1200 turntable][sl-1200] with a nice cartridge (the 1200 is not an audiophile turntable, but ease of use, rugged design, and consistent speed would offset that for me). For several years I had a pair of Klipsch bookshelf speakers but I had to give them away when I started living in smaller apartments. I loved the way they sounded, so as long as I'm dreaming, might as well dream of a large listening room with a pair of Klipschorns in the corners. And then I'd hire David Mancuso to consult on customizing them.