---
title: Rhys Newman
summary: Designer (Advanced Design @ Nokia)
categories:
- designer
- mac
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm [Rhys](http://rhysnewman.com/ "Rhys' website."), I'm Welsh, I live in Los Angeles, I'm a designer, an artist of sorts, and an obsessive evangelist for all things bicycling. I currently lead Advanced Design for Nokia - we have two studios, one in LA and one in Silicon Valley. I am also co-founder of [18milesperhour.com](http://18milesperhour.com/ "Rhys' biking website.").

#### What hardware do you use?

A wall and a desk. I love studios and desks that reflect designers projects and priorities, and the connections and conflicts that may bring. I call them messy, my friend and colleague Julian Bleecker calls them curated. A project should feel palpable in a studio, out and up, not just on screen. So for me, a huge wall where one can pin up, work on, layer, tear down, and build back up again is essential for me to work in a studio, and essential for good projects. If creativity is about connecting ideas and things that are not seemingly connected, a wall and curated desks can facilitate this creativity. In the studio, we have those powered desks that allow you to stand or sit, or hover in between on a stool. They're good - standing at your desk is nice.

For drawing and thinking through drawing I always carry two Moleskines, one for drawing, one for notes. I also like the scale of A4 Muji Sketchbooks for larger, more illustrative work. I buy [Pilot Hi-Tech C][hi-tec-c] drawing pens (0.25 and 0.4) in bulk, as they are always difficult to get hold of (maybe because everyone buys them in bulk). Rexel Cumberland Derwent Graphic and Tombow (Homo-Graph) Mono Pencils.

[Nokia 360 speakers][play-360] for music and radio out loud in the studio; [Sony MDR7506 Professional Large Diaphragm Headphones][mdr-7506], the sound engineer's headphone of choice according to my mate Jim (who is one) for listening to podcasts and traveling.

As for tech hardware: [Nokia Lumia 900][lumia-900] - obviously I'd say this, but it's quite a beautiful bit of product design (I had nothing to do with it) and I've come to really love the WinMo Metro UI on it. It's alive. A [MacBook Pro][macbook-pro] for work, [Epson 2400 Photo Scanner][perfection-2400-photo] for scanning sketchbooks, [Nikon Coolpix AW100][coolpix-aw100].

#### And what software?

In the studio, all the stock designers software that you would expect with a multidisciplinary design team. Personally, I use [Photoshop][] and [Illustrator][] for tweaking drawings; I have just recently installed [Alias][] on my MacBook to dust off my 3D modeling skills. We are using [Powerpoint][] less and less, even though the corporate machine can't live without it - we are increasingly using [Preview][] or the Acrobat viewer of very hi-res photographs on the studio wall to communicate and share projects in progress, and Quicktime films as a presentation tool. [Spotify][] and [Rdio][] for music, [Outlook][] for work emails, [Gmail][] for personal. Both [Skype][] and [Microsoft Lync][lync] for video calls.

#### What would be your dream setup?

This is a constant topic of conversation amongst close friends and colleagues.

My preference would be to start with a small studio, with a great big wall, a large kitchen table, a small kitchen. Lots of light, a modelshop and protolab next door. Good creative people, no dickheads, lots of good conversation, laughter and music, and a good few bicycles by the door. A few big projects, lots of small personal projects that blur the boundaries. And if there's one piece of technology currently missing, it's a digital product that feels like my pen and sketchbook.