---
title: Jay Stahl-Herz
summary: Forensic pathologist (NYC)
categories:
- mac
- pathologist
- windows
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I am a forensic pathologist working for the [New York City Office of Chief Medical Examiner](http://www.nyc.gov/html/ocme/html/home/home.shtml "The New York City Office of the Chief Medical Examiner website.").

#### What hardware do you use?

Most forensic pathologists are unbelievably picky about what they use for autopsies. If you asked 100 people, you'd get 100 different answers. I personally use a [MAC Professional MKS-105 carving knife][mks-105], a #4L scalpel handle and #70 scalpel blades, 10" Russian tissue forceps, 8" curved Mayo scissors and a 6"/15cm stainless steel ruler for every case. In my kit (an eight pocket leather chef's knife roll) I also have an 18" stainless steel ruler, a 99¢ nail clipper, 6" serrated dressing forceps, a pair of disposable plastic forceps and a backup knife (Victorinox, scimitar style).

As for computers, I work for a government agency and have zero input over anything IT related. We use [Windows XP][windows-xp] desktops and I imagine all the backend stuff is Microsoft as well.

My personal computer is a 15" [MacBook Pro][macbook-pro] with the optical drive swapped out for an OWC SSD.

#### And what software?

Our office just migrated to a new custom-designed platform based on [UVIS][] which is called UVIS-CMS. It's written in .NET, [Flash][] and [Silverlight][] and is quite buggy, slow and has a craptacular UX at the moment. We're in version 1.1 now, and I've been told that there is a road map to version 4.0 already. Our labs just got a [LIMS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Laboratory_information_management_system "The Wikipedia entry for LIMS.") online which was supposed to interface directly with CMS, but that isn't working either at the moment. Nobody likes CMS in its current form. While I see lots of back-end improvements on the horizon in the short term, the UX will remain garbage for the foreseeable future.

I use [EndNote X3][endnote] as a citation/reference manager for my scholarly work.

We use [VeriPic's Digital Photo Lab/Digital Evidence Manager][digital-evidence-manager] software package for image management - however, photo support has been rolled into CMS. We also use the [Office][] suite for email, word processing, etc. and we use [the NYC DOHMH computer system](http://www.nyc.gov/html/doh/html/services/vr-edrs.shtml "The Electronic Death Registration System website.") and an APC biometric fingerprint scanner for death certificates, just like all doctors in NYC do.

#### What would be your dream setup?

I'd contemplated getting a [MAC Ultimate SKS-105 10 1/4" slicer][sks-105], but it was too heavy for my liking. There are other tools I'd include in my kit if I worked in a smaller ME office that wasn't as well supplied as the office I currently work in.

As for computers, I've used a lot of the different pathology software packages out there ([CoPath][copathplus] and PowerPath extensively, and others to a lesser degree). When you speak with the vendor representatives they'll talk about their five 9's, six-sigma and robust backends until you can't breathe. Once you start using the software, you realize within five minutes that they spent 20 minutes on the UX. I'd like a pathology case management system that has a good UI, and I think most other people in my field would too since the market leaders are sorely lacking in this department. The same goes for the CMS system. I think the fact that it's browser-based is great, but since it's not standards compliant, we're forced to use [IE][internet-explorer] otherwise it won't work (although for my purposes, I don't need the Silverlight modules and [Chrome][] suffices). The take-home message here is UI and UX are critical and no pathology software does them well.

I think it would be entirely possible to roll all the disparate bits of software into one monolithic program and that's an eventual goal with CMS. It really is a PITA at the moment using so many different pieces of software daily. 

I'd also like to use [OS X][mac-os-x] and [LibreOffice][] at work but you can always dream.