---
title: Nick Bradbury
summary: Software developer (FeedDemon, Glassboard)
categories:
- developer
- mac
- software
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm [Nick Bradbury](http://nick.typepad.com/ "Nick's website.") and I'm a software developer. I started my career as a cartoonist, but switched to programming after random chance proved it kept a roof over my head more reliably than cartoons did.

I created [HomeSite][], [TopStyle][] and [FeedDemon][] for Windows, then switched to Android development a few years ago and created the Android versions of Glassboard and [NewsGator Social Sites][social-sites-android].

#### What hardware do you use?

My main development machine is a 27" [iMac][] with a 21" secondary display. When I travel, I bring along a 15" [MacBook Pro][macbook-pro]. 

I have a growing collection of Android devices, including the latest [Nexus 4][nexus-4] and [Nexus 7][nexus-7] (which I love), plus a smattering of older phones running various versions of Android for testing. A while back I bought an incredibly crappy, low-end LG [Android][] 2.2 phone to make sure my software runs well even on slow devices. I also have an [iPhone 4S][iphone-4s], which I use to keep up with what iOS developers are creating.

My closet is full of the skeletal remains of all the Windows systems I used over the years before switching to the Mac. Somewhere in that mess lies a dusty old TRS-80 Color Computer, which I taught myself BASIC & assembler on when I was a teenager.

#### And what software?

Far too many programs to mention! The desktop software I rely on the most is [Eclipse][], [Google Chrome][chrome], [1Password][], [Parallels][parallels-desktop], [Dropbox][], [MacHG][], [SourceTree][], [Acorn][], [Skype][], [ColorSchemer Studio][colorschemer-studio], [Balsamiq Mockups][mockups], and Delphi (when I'm running Windows).

On my phone, I use Glassboard an awful lot, not just because I helped create it but also because it's so useful for private group conversations. I have a board with my co-workers and another with my family that I post to several times a day.

Before I had kids I was an avid gamer with a love for Quake-style games. I dropped that addiction because once I became a dad, something had to go.

#### What would be your dream setup?

A telepathic version of [Google Glass][google-glass] that could read my thoughts and write the software I imagine without me having to do all that tedious coding.