---
title: Chloe Cross
summary: Writer (VICE)
categories:
- journalist
- mac
- sex
- writer
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm Chloe Cross, a writer from London. I mainly write for [vice.com](http://vice.com/ "A magazine."), but you can find links to all of my articles at [chloecrossx.com](http://chloecrossx.com/ "Chloe's website.").

Don't read my articles if you're a prude - they might offend you as I usually write about sex and other rude things.

#### What hardware do you use?

I don't have a lot of money and what I do have I seem to spend on silly things like trips to NY or tattoos, so my hardware is kept to a minimum. Thankfully it seems to be all I need. 

I do everything on my old white 13" [MacBook][] so I was pretty gutted when I spilt red wine over it and it was in repair for five weeks. Thankfully I had my boyfriend's MacBook to use, although that was even older. 

I use my 16GB [iPhone 4][iphone-4] with a black case with bunny ears for emailing and Tweeting on the go (follow me at [@chloecrossx](http://twitter.com/chloecrossx "Chloe's Twitter account.")). I seem to always be out the house and doing things, so I'll often email someone interview questions while I'm out running errands or finish an article while I'm getting my hair done. I'm convinced my hippocampus is damaged so I also use my iPhone to get absolutely everywhere. 

I read real books instead of eBooks because I like collecting them and looking at them on my bookcase. I write down notes using a pen and paper when I get the opportunity - I've noticed that my handwriting is getting worse and worse because I always type, so I'm trying to make an effort to get it looking pretty again. 

I used to have a [Nikon D40][d40] but I sold it a few months ago to pay a month's rent. I hardly used it and since [Instagram][instagram-ios] is the only photo programme I use now, my iPhone is adequate enough. 

When it comes to music, I listen to it either through my iPhone or MacBook, sometimes linking it up to the living room speakers. I don't have a stereo. A lot of my housemates are musicians so if the TV speakers are good enough for them, they're good enough for me. 

#### And what software?

For chatting I use [iChat][] on my MacBook. Everyone in the VICE office uses this, so I stay logged in all day to keep in touch with those guys. 

For interviewing I'll either give them a call, email questions over using my Yahoo address (which everyone seems to laugh at), or [Skype][]. 

I use [Word][] for writing because I've been using it since school and it's super easy. 

My boyfriend moans at me for using [Safari][], but for some reason I refuse to use anything else. 

I run my website using [Wordpress.com][wordpress] because it's all I know. I haven't learned how to use Internet coding yet but I hope to in the near future. 

I use [Preview][] for editing photos, but all I'll do is edit the size to fit with the 640 pixel regulation for VICE. 

News apps on my iPhone, such as [Metro Online][metro-ios] and [Standard][london-evening-standard-ios] are great for what I do because it means I can look for stories and ideas for articles while on the go. I don't like to carry newspapers around, despite being a writer, I forget to pick them up so the apps are really handy. 

#### What would be your dream setup?

My dream set up would be my old white MacBook on a wooden desk, looking out of my floor to ceiling glass windows where I can see the canal that runs through East London and the Olympic Stadium, which I'm only metres from. I have everything I need, so I'd be happy with that and maybe a printer and some Bose speakers.