---
title: Matt Gemmell
summary: Mac and iOS developer
categories:
- developer
- mac
- software
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm Matt Gemmell, and I design and create software (for myself, and for others). I help companies to make their apps easy to use, and as simple as possible. My clients include everyone from independent developers, to major corporations including Apple. I speak about designing software at various industry conferences, and I write for various tech magazines (including a monthly column in Tap! magazine for iOS).

My blog is at [http://mattgemmell.com](http://mattgemmell.com/ "Matt's website.") and I'm mattgemmell on both [Twitter](https://twitter.com/mattgemmell "Matt on Twitter.") and [App.Net](https://alpha.app.net/mattgemmell "Matt on App.net.").

#### What hardware do you use?

Almost anything with an Apple logo. My main machine is a 27" [iMac][], which I renew every two years at the maximum available spec. I use an external display as a second screen; my current one is a 24" Samsung SyncMaster.

My usual input device is a [Wacom Intuos5][intuos] (pen and touch) tablet, which I use as a full-time multi-touch trackpad, and for pen input in [Photoshop][] and [Illustrator][]. My keyboard of choice is an [Apple Wireless][keyboard], and I have several spares. I also have a number of Apple [Magic Trackpads][magic-trackpad], which are great but which have been replaced by the Intuos5. I've never liked Apple's mice, and the Magic Mouse is no exception. When I do need a mouse, I use a [Logitech Performance Mouse MX][performance-mouse-mx], of which I have at least two generations.

We have something of a MacBook museum in the house, but my favourite is the 11" [MacBook Air][macbook-air]. It's the perfect satellite and travel machine, and ideal for conferences. I'll keep buying them as long as Apple keeps making them. The screen on the Retina [MacBook Pro][macbook-pro] is of course wonderful too. I have a mount that lets me use the MacBooks when I'm on the exercise bike in my office.

As an iOS developer, I have an assortment of iPads and iPhones. My carry-at-all-times phone is whatever the latest iPhone is at the time, currently a black [iPhone 5][iphone-5] (and there's a white one here too, if you prefer).

My most important "hardware", though, is my stationery. I use large softcover squared-paper Moleskines, and Staedtler fineliners, and you should too.

#### And what software?

I code for Mac and iOS in [Xcode][], I write (notes, plans, blog posts and scripts) in [BBEdit][], and I design in Photoshop (and very occasionally Illustrator, for the vector tools). I also write long-form fiction in my spare time, for which there's no better tool in the world than [Scrivener][].

On the Mac, my Twitter client is [Tweetbot][], and my [App.Net][] client is [Kiwi][]. I also sit on a private IRC channel throughout each working day with some of my closest friends from my university days, and I use [Linkinus][] as my IRC client. Other than that, my choices are the defaults: [Safari][], [Mail][], [Messages][], [Terminal][], and [Calendar][ical]. I use [iTunes][] under continuous protest. My feed-reader at the moment is [Feedly][], via Safari.

I speak at a number of conferences and events each year, and I always use [Keynote][] (on all three platforms). Life's too short for [PowerPoint][].

On the iPhone, I also use [Tweetbot][tweetbot-ios] for Twitter, and I use [Felix][felix-ios] for App.Net. I love [Drafts][drafts-ios] for jotting quick notes, and I have the [Feedly][feedly-ios] app for my news. I also keep the [Kindle][kindle-ios] app handy (at the moment, I'm re-reading 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea, for probably the twentieth time). [ReaddleDocs][documents-ios] is also a great all-in-one utility for local and remote file access and reading.

On iPad, I again use Tweetbot for Twitter, and [Netbot][netbot-ios] for App.Net. I really like [Elements][elements-ios] for writing, and I keep Drafts around too. When I need to get into my servers, I use [Prompt][prompt-ios]. I sometimes use an iPad as an input device for Photoshop, via [Adobe Nav][nav-ios], alongside my Wacom. I also sketch in [Paper][paper-ios] sometimes, using a [Jot Pro][jot-pro] stylus. I subscribe to a few Newsstand publications, and also keep the Kindle app and the [Marvel Comics app][marvel-comics-ios] handy.

#### What would be your dream setup?

I'd love a 27" Retina iMac, and an external Apple display of the same type, but I think that's a year or two away. I expect Retina versions of the 11" and 13" MacBook Air this year, which I will eagerly buy. Other than that, just the usual request: make regular-sized iPads thinner and lighter, but no less rigid. The [iPad mini][ipad-mini] is a good start.

Oh, and I'd love to own a [Wacom Cintiq][cintiq] (at least 21", I suppose), but I know I'd rarely use it.