---
title: Joe Armstrong
summary: Software developer (Erlang)
categories:
- developer
- linux
- mac
- software
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

[Joe Armstrong](http://armstrongonsoftware.blogspot.ru/ "Joe's website."), software engineer. Best known for my work on [Erlang][].

#### What hardware do you use?

At home I use a 15-inch [MacBook Pro][macbook-pro]. For travel, lectures etc. I have an 11-inch [MacBook Air][macbook-air]. I have an [iMac][] for picture editing.

My NAS is a 4TB [Synology DS411slim][ds411slim].

Then I have two [Raspberry Pi's][raspberry-pi], quite a lot of [Arduinos][arduino].

At work I have a [Dell Latitude E6430][latitude-e6430] quad-core 2.9GHZ 8GB 250GB SSD running [Ubuntu][].

Camera: A [Lumix G3][lumix-dmc-g3] - micro 4/3 with a fantastic Vario 1:4/4-14 lens.

Music production: A [Roland Integra-7][integra-7] (fantastic machine - an entire orchestra in a box) and a [Roland RD-700NX][rd-700nx] stage piano.

Oh, and [Bose QuietComfort 15][quietcomfort-15] noise reducing headphones - essential for long-distance flights.

Sonos sound system for listening to music.

#### And what software?

[Emacs][], [make][] and [bash][] for all programming.

[Keynote][] for slides. [Pages][] for letters.

[Photoshop Elements][photoshop-elements] for editing photos, [Aperture][] for organizing images.

[Spotify][] and [Rdio][] for music.

I write books using XML markup in emacs (nxml mode), and run the text
through the spell checker ([aspell][]) and the Mac voice synthesizer.

I write code in Emacs - I don't use any IDEs and use printf debugging, apart from [JavaScript][] which I run in the [Chrome][] browser.

I use [GitHub][] for collaborative projects, [Dropbox][] to transfer files between my work machines, and Dreamhost for backup and private
projects.

I use [git][] and [svn][subversion] for version control.

I use Erlang, bash scripts, JavaScript, [C][], [Prolog][], various [Lisps][lisp] and makefiles for most programming projects. 

[Evernote][] for a web clipbook, and [Chandler][] to organise jobs.

#### What would be your dream setup?

Software that's not broken. 

An infinite supply of paper, and pens that don't leak.

I'd like a 11-inch laptop with a few days battery. I can't think it
would need more than 16GB memory and 500GB SSD.

It would have high quality voice input.

It would cache data off-machine into fault-tolerant storage.

If the machine broke I would like to go to any other machine
and resume work within a few seconds without losing any data.

If my machine was stolen I would like it to be totally unusable
after a short time - so nobody would bother to steal it.

I would like the machine to recognize me, through some mechanism
(fingerprints, retina scan, DNA - who knows) so I don't need passwords.

I would like to access all my data, securely forever, and index it
all so I could find things.

I want a total backup solution that snapshots and guards my data so
nothing ever gets accidentally lost or destroyed.

I want zero viruses, trojans, malware.

I'm trying to build some of these things - right now I'm still stuck on the first point - making software that's not broken.