---
title: Adit Gupta
summary: Founder and CEO (Function Space)
categories:
- developer
- linux
- mac
- suit
- web
- windows
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

Hey! I'm Adit Gupta and I'm currently the founder & CEO of [Function Space](http://functionspace.org/ "A science learning network."), which is a new social learning network for science. Previously, I've worked as lead interaction designer, [Python][] lead and technology evangelist. Although I graduated as a petroleum engineer, I've always had an interest in science, programming and designing that ultimately led to the formation of Function Space. :)

#### What hardware do you use?

I usually work on my [Mac Mini][mac-mini] that runs with 8 GB RAM. Along with that I use an [Apple Thunderbolt Display][thunderbolt-display] and [Apple Wireless keyboard][keyboard]. I also have an old Sony Vaio E-Series laptop 
that tri-boots into [Ubuntu 12.10][ubuntu], [Fedora 19][fedora] and [Windows 7][windows-7]. As crazy as it may sound, I really love to work on different operating systems throughout the day.

For my designing work, I use a [Wacom Intuos][intuos] tablet along with a Moleskine for quickly sketching out wireframes. I have Moleskines of every size and shape and they accompany me wherever I go. I also have a second generation [iPad][ipad-2] that I mostly use for consuming news and watching movies. I heavily rely on my [iPhone 4S][iphone-4s] for messaging, [Skype][] calls, meeting reminders and for checking the vital stats of my startup on the go. I read on my [Kindle Paperwhite][kindle-paperwhite], and it's my best companion while I'm travelling. 

I'm also an amateur astronomer and use a [Celestron Astromaster 76 EQ][astromaster-76eq] for stargazing that is supported by an [eyepiece and filter kit][eyepiece-and-filter-kit-1.25in]. Believe me, there is nothing as satisfying as watching the stars after a stressful day! Whenever I get time, I also play with my [Arduino][] board which is usually connected to a WiFi or a motor shield.

#### And what software?

For development, I usually work with [Vim][] with a highly customized .vimrc file. I have also tried a range of other editors like [Emacs][], [Sublime Text][sublime-text] and [Brackets][]. I use [Git][] as a version control system and either [GitHub][] or [BitBucket][] for my online repositories. For performance monitoring, I use [New Relic][new-relic] and [Pingdom][] and collaborate with my team using [HipChat][] and [Basecamp][].

For designing, I use [Moqups][] for wireframing. I prefer designing in the browser as it gives you a better idea of site responsiveness and performance. However, I am looking forward to using [Macaw][], which seems to be a friendly tool for today's web designers. I use [CloudApp][] for sharing design work with my coworkers and peers. For deciding on color schemes, I use [ColorSnapper][] and [Adobe Kuler][kuler]. I prefer Type Cast for deciding on web typography and [TypeKit][] for rendering beautiful fonts on the web.

On the iPhone, I use [iMessage][], [Fantastical][fantastical-ios], [Prismatic][prismatic-ios], [Alien Blue][alien-blue-ios] and native apps for [Pingdom][pingdom-ios] and [New Relic][new-relic-ios]. I use [Sky Guide][sky-guide-ios] as my stargazing assistant, [Duolingo][duolingo-ios] for learning new languages and [ARGUS][argus-ios] to stay fit! I also use [Gmail][gmail-ios], [Dropbox][dropbox-ios], [Skype][skype-ios], [MindNode][mindnode-ios] and [iA Writer][ia-writer-ios] on a daily basis.

#### What would be your dream setup?

I would love to have a multi-monitor setup running on high-end GPUs and GBs of RAM. For portability, I would love to have a [MacBook Air][macbook-air] with more memory and a Retina screen. To be honest, I would be more than eager to get my hands on anything that provides better computational power with an equally impressive user experience.