---
title: Ramsey Nasser
summary: Computer scientist, game designer
categories:
- developer
- game
- mac
- scientist
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

My name is Ramsey Nasser. I am a computer scientist, game designer, and educator from Lebanon living in New York. I was an [Eyebeam Fellow](http://eyebeam.org/people/ramsey-nasser "Ramsey's fellow page.") and currently teach at a variety of Universities around the city and develop software as a freelancer while working on my own projects. I am particularly interested in code education and the design of programming languages and programming tools.

#### What hardware do you use?

A [15" MacBook Pro][macbook-pro] from 2011 serves as my sole computer. It has 16GB of RAM (which is more than every computer I've ever owned combined), so it's snappy. At home, my 27" [Cinema Display][cinema-display], [wireless keyboard][keyboard] and trackpad turn my laptop into a desktop.

I don't like being plugged in at all times, so I abandoned smart phones a few years ago in favor of the [Motofone F3][motofone-f3]. It calls, texts, and gets out of my way. I love it to death! They haven't made them in a few years, so finding chargers or good batteries is a bit of a challenge, but it really comes close to the perfect phone as far as I'm concerned.

Instead of wired internet at home, I have a 4G hot spot from Clear. It works great as domestic WiFi, but it also lets me pick up and work outside when the weather's nice.

In my back pocket I always keep a Moleskine Kraft Brown Cahier Journal and a ballpoint pen. I like always having something to jot down notes on or brainstorm visually. The experience of writing on paper with a pen still trumps every note taking app I've tried.

I shoot pictures on two cameras: a [Canon EOS 500D][eos-500d] with a [50mm f1.8][ef-50mm-f1.8-ii] lens, and a [Canon A-1][a-1] with a variety of non-autofocus lenses, a [50mm f1.4][ef-50mm-f1.4-usm] being my favorite. The A1 was my father's camera in the 80s and my entire childhood was recorded through its lenses. My digital photos turn out a lot better, but shooting on my A1 is so much more of a challenge and has a lot more sentimental value.

When it's not raining, a motorcycle is my preferred way of getting around. I ride a stock '95 [Honda Nighthawk 750][nighthawk-750] that I love to pieces. It doesn't excel in any category, but does everything well and is damn near indestructible. My first bike, which I still own, is a gorgeous but perpetually-in-need-of-work '76 [Honda CB360][cb360].

I still have my [TI-83][] graphing calculator on my desk, and it gets used constantly.

#### And what software?

I'm on [Mac OS][mac-os-x], having been a Linux user for a long time. OS X is fine, it works well as a POSIX system and works well as an OS that normal people (which I like to be from time to time) can use. [Homebrew][] is a must if you're a hacker using OS X on a daily basis.

I browse the web using [Chrome][]. The combined search/address bar is a great idea, and the V8 JavaScript engine is noticeably better than other browsers' scripting support.

I drift between text editors over time. I was a long time [TextMate][] user, and even maintain a popular [Arduino bundle][arduino-textmate-bundle] for it, but I'm on [Sublime Text][sublime-text] now. I love the multiple cursor idiom and the command bar, but still Sublime Text does a lot of things that annoy me. I'm trying to get into [Vim][], but the keyboard commands still seem arbitrary and non-intuitive. -20 hacker points, I know.

The most effective tool I've ever picked up is [Notational Velocity][notational-velocity], hands down. I use this to record ideas, take notes, manage my todo lists, and almost everything else. It is one of the few things I use daily and have no complaints about. They nailed it.

[Alfred][] serves as my application launcher, although I am not a power user by any stretch.

I use [Sparrow][] as my mail client, and I don't host my mail on GMail. I've tried a lot of alternatives, and everything is either GMail-only or not that good. Let me go on record saying I will never forgive Google for [killing Sparrow](http://pandodaily.com/2012/07/20/why-googles-sparrow-acquisition-just-ruined-my-morning/ "An article about Google acquiring Sparrow.").

I prototype a lot of my web-based projects on [Heroku][] and usually migrate them over to my [Linode][] box when they need a more nuanced deployment.

A lot of my game development happens in [Unity 3D][unity]. It is quick and easy to get something up and running, and Unity's Component system is quite powerful when used correctly.

For long-form writing, I love [Byword][]. It turns my laptop into a typewriter and gets out of my way – perfect.

#### What would be your dream setup?

Well, I tend to feel that everything is profoundly broken, so my actual dream setup involves rewriting operating systems and applications as we know them from scratch.

Short of that, I wouldn't mind a laptop with a retina display and SSD storage. Longer battery life would also be welcome. I almost never carry a charger with me because of how bulky they are, but I can't go more than 4 hours without being that guy who bugs you to borrow your power. A good set of speakers or headphones would be awesome, although I couldn't tell you which ones.

Oh, and a black '60s-era [BMW R75/5][r75-5] in mint condition, please.