---
title: Adrian Bowyer
summary: Mechanical engineer, inventor (RepRap)
categories:
- engineer
- linux
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

My name is [Adrian Bowyer](http://adrianbowyer.net/ "Adrian's website."), and I invented [RepRap][] - humanity's first practical and useful self-replicating machine. RepRap is entirely open-source and free.

I used to be an academic at the University of Bath in the UK, where I spent time pretending to be a mathematician, a computer
scientist, a chemical engineer and a biologist rather than being what
I really was, which was a mechanical engineer in the Engineering
Department.

I spent most of my time researching computational geometry, both for
its own sake, and for application in engineering CAD systems. I am
one of the authors of the [Bowyer-Watson algorithm for Voronoi diagrams](http://comjnl.oxfordjournals.org/content/24/2/162 "An algorithm that Adrian helped invent."), I have devised a
[new class of fractals](http://www.adrianbowyer.net/web_images/bowyer_fractal.pdf "Adrian's PDF on his new fractal curve."), and have written a number of papers on the use of implicit geometry in CAD systems.

#### What hardware do you use?

I have 12 RepRap 3D printers at the current count.

I also have a workshop with a lathe, a 3-axis mill, an arc welder, soft-tooling for casting, surface-mount soldering, electronics test equipment, microscopes, glass-blowing equipment, and a chemistry/biochemistry laboratory.

I intend shortly to get a small CNC mill and a laser-cutter.

I have a house and a laboratory full of PCs of various ages and states of decrepitude. But day-to-day I use a Zoostorm Desktop PC, with an Intel Pentium DC G860 3GHz, 8GB of RAM, and 1TB HDD with two 1920 x 1080 displays.

#### And what software?

All the computers I have run Ubuntu Linux, currently version 12.04.

Running along the launch bar: I use the [Eclipse][] Java development environment, [Firefox][], [Thunderbird][] e-mail with [OpenPGP][], [Arduino][] Version, the [OpenSCAD][] 3D CAD system, the [Gimp][] image editor, [Skype][], [LibreCAD][] 2D CAD, [Pronterface][printrun] 3D printer driver, [Eagle][] and [KiCAD][] electronics design software, [RepRapPro's](https://github.com/reprappro "RepRap's GitHub account.") version of the Java RepRapo host software, [Inkscape][], and [Gedit][]

All that software is free, and (except for Eagle and Skype) it is all open-source.

I spend most of my time doing mechanical and electronic design for
RepRap and writing software for it. The above list pretty much give
the toolkit I use for that purpose.

#### What would be your dream setup?

All the above running 30-times faster in a much bigger set of rooms :-)