---
title: Hadley Wickham
summary: Chief scientist (RStudio)
categories:
- developer
- mac
- professor
- software
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm Chief Scientist at RStudio - my job is to make good data analysis easier, faster, and more enjoyable and [R][] more awesome through a combination of research, programming and teaching. I enjoy developing new ways to solve data analysis challenges, polishing off the rough edges of R, and uncovering the beautiful ideas that live in the heart of R.

#### What hardware do you use?

[15" MacBook Pro Retina][macbook-pro], 2.6 GHz, 16 gig RAM, 500 gig SSD (only half full). I couldn't live without SSD or Retina. I'm still using an [iPhone 4][iphone-4], and waiting desperately for the [5S][iphone-5s]. I have [Shure SE215-K][se215] headphones, but my electronics recommendations aren't very interesting since I usually just read [the wirecutter](http://thewirecutter.com/ "A technology weblog.") and order whatever they recommend ;) I mostly program sitting in an [IKEA POÅNG chair][poang].

Outside of computing, I love my [Weber Gold grill][one-touch-gold-kettle], my [KitchenAid mixer][ultra-power-stand] and my Timbuktu messenger bag.

#### And what software?

I live mostly in [Chrome][], the [Terminal][] and [RStudio][]/[Sublime Text 2][sublime-text]. Stayfocusd keeps me (mostly) focussed during the work day, and keeps me from distractions like [Hacker News](http://hckrnews.com/ "An alternative HN interface.") and [The Old Reader][the-old-reader]. I use [Adium](https://adium.im/) for chat, because you can make it v. minimal, but Google's crippling of XMPP has made less useful and I have to use Gchat as well. I use [Gmail][], but every UI change in the last year has made me like it less. I [tweet](https://twitter.com/hadleywickham/ "Hadley's Twitter account.") from [Echofon][], but pretty much only read [#rstats](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23rstats "A Twitter search for the rstats hashtag.") related tweets. I present from [Keynote][] and loathe [Beamer][]. My current favourite iPhone game is [Wordament][wordament-ios].

I manage open source packages with [homebrew][], and program almost exclusively in R with a little [C++][c-plusplus] on the side. I use [git][] and [github](http://github.com/hadley/ "Hadley's GitHub account.") [all the time](http://osrc.dfm.io/hadley "Hadley's open source report card.").  I write mostly in [Markdown][] or [LaTex][], particularly in conjunction with [R Markdown][r-markdown], [Jekyll][], [Pandoc][] and GitHub wikis. I'm currently working on a book about [advanced R programming](http://adv-r.had.co.nz/ "Hadley's R book.") using all those tools.

When travelling, I search for flights with [Google Flights][google-flights] and hotels with [Kayak][]. I manage my itineraries with [TripIt][] and receipts with [Expensify][]. 

I use [Time Machine][time-machine] + an external HDD for local backups (I've given up trying to use it over wireless), and [Arq][] for remote backups to [S3][]. I keep big datasets and shared files in [Dropbox][] - we have a teams account, so I have 1 TB (!) of storage there. I store passwords and other important (encrypted) info in [LittleSecrets][].

#### What would be your dream setup?

As long as I have my laptop, headphones, an internet connection and comfy seat, I'm happy pretty much anywhere. I would love better Internet access when travelling internationally, and I'd love a private jet to avoid travel hassles :)