---
title: Elaine Short
summary: Writer, editor, cartoonist
categories:
- cartoonist
- editor
- mac
- writer
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

My name is [Elaine Short](https://twitter.com/ink_teef "Elaine's Twitter account."), and because of a dumb decision post-college, my internet name is Elaine Tall. This was a stupid delayed punchline and it confuses everyone. 

I'm a writer in Chicago. I work for [Maxistentialism, Inc.](http://maxistentialism.com/ "Max's empire."), writing and coordinating projects. I helped write the open source compendium of rules for a new version of [Werewolf](http://www.kickstarter.com/projects/maxtemkin/werewolf-0 "Max's Werewolf Kickstarter project."). I also write a cartoon called [Funny Girl](http://inkteef.tumblr.com/ "Elaine's comic.").

#### What hardware do you use?

I have just replaced my 2008 Sony Vaio laptop with a 13-inch [MacBook Air][macbook-air] (2013). Let me tell you something, it's great. I can stream music, open emails, even write emails! I had not realized how bad my Vaio had gotten until I started looking for a replacement. Then I wanted it all. 

My techy-hardware is limited to my laptop, aside from my [iPhone 4S][iphone-4s], which I use as a computer substitute out of laziness, and a set of sultry brown [Eskuche Control v2 headphones][control-v2]. For important conference calls with my Dad, I use Apple's earbuds with remote volume control and mic. 

I also have a weighty copy of *Garner's Modern American Usage* language manual on my desk. I am an editor at heart, so consider the thing a security blanket; I learned editing at a college newspaper that the best editors aren't those who already know every AP rule, or what have you, but those who know when to look in a book for the right answer. 

These next items aren't really "hardware," but I can't draw my comic without them. I sketch my 'toons on Strathmore's 9x12 Sketch book, and I ink my finals on Strathmore's 9x12 Bristol vellum surface paper, which soaks up my Higgins Black India ink plenty good. I used to "ink" with pens, like the [Faber-Castell][pitt-artist] set for dummies. Once I switched to proper inking with dip pens, specifically Speedball’s "Artists" pointed nibs, I felt a new control over my hand worth the occasional ink drip. I use a [Stadtler Mars Plastic eraser][mars-plastic-526-50], and if I don't have it I can't draw. Yes, it takes me many tries to accomplish the crude and basic forms I call characters, but I didn't say I was an artist.  

I keep all of these tools in a plastic ziplock bag. Foolproof.

#### And what software?

[Spotify][]. Did I mention I write? I hear there are a bunch of fancy types of software that make a blank page look even more blank-page-y. I hear they're incredible. But I use Apple's [Pages][] because it's good and cost me 20 dollars, or [Google Docs][google-docs] because it's good, stores online and and costs nothing. 

For my cartoon, I have an annual subscription to all those [Adobe programs][creative-suite], but I mostly use [Photoshop][] like a toddler learning numbers and shapes on one of those obnoxiously complicated interactive baby-seat things.

I've also started trying to learn new skills, so I have [Sublime Text][sublime-text] editor, which I've looked at twice, and I toy around with [CSS Tricks](http://css-tricks.com/ "A CSS tutorial site.") (not software, but free online tutorials) and that's pretty great.

Also, my Timberlands, because you never know when the road is gonna get rocky.

#### What would be your dream setup?

A drawing table, or just a space designated to inking my cartoon would be neat, and I think one of these days I'll invest in a [Thunderbolt display][thunderbolt-display]. Otherwise, I'm content.