---
title: Glenn Fleishman
summary: Editor (The Magazine), podcaster (The New Disruptors)
categories:
- editor
- mac
- podcaster
- writer
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm Glenn Fleishman, a recovering typesetter, who recently added "publisher" to my "editor" title at *[The Magazine](http://the-magazine.org/ "The Magazine's website.")*, a fortnightly periodical for curious people founded by Marco Arment. I've worked making granola, running the tech at a Kodak educational facility in Maine, as a managing editor at a book firm, and at Amazon.com for six months in late 1996.

I host the podcast [The New Disruptors](http://muleradio.net/newdisruptors "Glenn's podcast on Mule."), built the backend at [TidBITS](http://tidbits.com/ "The TidBITS site.") (where I also write), and am a regular contributor to the *Economist*. (I wrote "[The Sharing Economy](http://www.economist.com/news/technology-quarterly/21572914-collaborative-consumption-technology-makes-it-easier-people-rent-items "Glenn's article in The Economist.")" cover story in March 2013.)

#### What hardware do you use?

I've got four systems that I will list in declining screen area.

A 2011 [Mac Mini][mac-mini], which I recently bumped from 8 GB to 16 GB of RAM (for less than $100) with two external 19-inch displays, is my primary machine. I have two keyboards. A hard-action [Matias Tactile Pro][tactile-pro] (FK302 model) that I use for everything except when I am taking verbatim or other notes while talking to people by phone or VoIP. For that, I have a scissor-action [Macally icekey][icekey] that's no longer sold. I've worn out two previous Matias keyboards through an incredible amount of use. I learned to type at age 11 and run about 100 wpm. 

I use this computer with a standing desk that also has a [treadmill][treaddesk] that I can use while working. I stand on a foam mat when I'm just standing. This is in a basement home office.

For work around the town and on the road, as well as upstairs, I rely on a 2011 [MacBook Air][macbook-air], which I love more than any laptop I've ever owned, even though its motherboard died about 13 months into its lifespan and I had failed to purchase the extended warranty I always buy for Apple laptops. (Pro tip: Apple Stores don't necessarily tell you this, but one of the geniuses at the store near my house did. For slightly more than the AppleCare warranty cost, you can get a repair of anything wrong with a Mac, but it has to be sent back for a few days to a central depot. I had an $800+ motherboard fixed for about $300 including tax.)

An [iPad 4][ipad-4] serves as a portable reading and video-watching device. The MacBook Air is so compact that I don't use the iPad for much in the way of entering data. And an [iPhone 5][iphone-5] can be an effective office-away-from-laptops.

My kids have access (at parental discretion) to a very old [iPod touch][ipod-touch] and an [iPhone 3GS][iphone-3gs] (with cell service turned off), as well as an [iPad 2][ipad-2] and a 2009 [MacBook][].

#### And what software?

First and foremost is [BBEdit][]. I was a latecomer to it, being required to used [Word][] for most of my writing because editors relied on it (especially for tracking changes). But around version 8 several years ago, I started to use it more consistently. Now I essentially live in it. Probably 85% of the time I'm not reading or writing email — with the [Mailsmith][] client designed by Bare Bones founder Rich Siegel and now maintained as freeware — I'm programming, writing, or editing in BBEdit. 

*The Magazine* and TidBITS use [Markdown][] as our native format, and I convert from Markdown into the HTML required by the *Economist*'s CMS. I use [SVN][subversion] for version control with *The Magazine* and TidBITS as well. I recently discovered and fell in love with Zenna•Ware's [Cornerstone][] as a Mac SVN manager. If I need to deal with a Word .doc or .docx file, I use [Pages][] instead. I started using [TextEdit][] not long ago to help with certain conversions, such as taking an RTF file with embedded links and exporting as not-too-horrible HTML, which I could then convert into Markdown.

Rounding out the Bare Bones-related triumvirate is [Yojimbo][], a sort of junk-drawer program that lets me drop in notes, serial numbers, Web pages, images, and PDFs, and optionally encrypt individual items.

My desktop and iOS Twitter client is [Tweetbot][], and I use [Kiwi][] for App.net on my Mac and [Netbot][netbot-ios] for iOS. My only issue with Kiwi is that it needs multi-account support.

I spent May deep in development and design of *The Magazine* to launch minor revisions after my purchase of it had completed. On the low-level side, I was using [PHP][] with [jQuery][] for [JavaScript][] and [Stripe][] for credit-card processing. On the higher-level, I relied on Oracle's [MySQL Workbench][mysql-workbench] for MySQL database interaction and [GitHub for Mac][github-mac] for version control.

I admit a bit guiltily that for previewing and designing CSS, I turn to MacRabbit's [CSSEdit 2.5][cssedit], a version that's no longer shipping, as its functionality was absorbed into the company's [Espresso][] Web site development software.

[Skype][] is invaluable. However irritating it can be, and however much I dislike the user-interface changes in the 5.x client update for Mac, it's still something I rely on. I gave up a landline phone line years ago, and switched to [Vonage][], until I found that Skype was much cheaper, more flexible, and not bad at all. When I record my podcast, I use Skype for the call, and can record my local audio while asking the guest to record his or hers as well.

#### What would be your dream setup?

With the memory bump on the Mac mini, I'm fairly close to an ideal situation computationally: I have the computer, keyboards, and desk that I want. I would like to find affordable and compact IPS displays. But all the ones I can find are 16:9 ratio and huge. I'd also like to switch to SSDs for everything: boot and local backup. But the cost for my current capacity needs is too high.