---
title: Jana Kinsman
summary: Illustrator, beekeeper
categories:
- beekeeper
- illustrator
- mac
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I am [Jana Kinsman](http://www.janakinsman.com/ "Jana's website.")! Freelance illustrator; the creator of [Doodlebooth](http://doodlebooth.me/ "A service providing hand-drawn portraits at events."), an in-person portraiture service; creator of [Bike a Bee](http://bikeabee.com/ "A beekeeping service in Chicago."), a beekeeping initiative that provides beehives to community gardens and urban farms in Chicago; and 1/5 of [Quite Strong](http://quitestrong.com/ "A design collaborative in Chicago."), an all-female design collaborative. [This is Where I Work](http://thisiswhereiwork.com/ "This is where Jana works.") with a lot of rad people.

#### What hardware do you use?

For design and illustration work, I use a 11" [Macbook Air][macbook-air]. I bought it because it's tiny and light. I do not do any illustration work on the computer; all of my drawings are hand-drawn and scanned at high resolution. For in-office scanning, I use an [Epson Perfection v600][perfection-v600]. For portable scanning when I am doodling folks at events, I use an [HP Scanjet Professional 1000][scanjet-professional-1000]. I love both scanners uncontrollably. For backing up work, I use a [G-Drive Mini][g-drive-mini]. The headphones I listen to jams on are usually iPod headphones I found on the ground. My dad got me a nice pair of Sennheisers for Christmas, which I leave at my desk. I drink water out of a 1/2 liter Ball jar, and take photos and tweet about general dickery on my [iPhone 4S][iphone-4s]. 

I use [0.3 Staedtler Pigment Liners][pigment-liner-308] almost exclusively, replacing them when the tip gets flat because of the weird way I hold my pens. I hate to throw them away, so I have a huge collection of flat-tipped pens with the labels scratched through, so I can tell them apart from the fresh ones. For brush and ink work, I use Pelikan india ink and a size 0 Kolinsky Sable brush. I draw on cover-stock Paper Source paper (in White or Soft White) because I got used to it at some point, and I do my brush work on various watercolor papers – I still haven't found one that I like 100%. I use mechanical pencils for sketching, and a Staedtler Mars Plastic eraser for erasifying. For ink and water reservoirs, I use bottle caps that we collect at our office.

My most important hardware is a collection of roughly 300,000 live bees. 

I keep Minnesota Hygienic bees, developed by [Marla Spivak](http://www.macfound.org/fellows/43/ "An article about Marla."), one of my personal heroes. I order my beekeeping equipment through Mann-Lake, a cooperatively owned beekeeping supplier in Minnesota. I keep bees in [Langstroth hives][langstroth-hive] because my hives are located far apart; I carry everything by bicycle and trailer, and Langstroth hives are ultra-modular. I use 10-frame [supers][honey-super] and use only medium supers (aka "Illinois supers"; REPRESENT) since keeping one size makes the whole process even simpler. I use plastic foundation in my frames; it's sturdier and can take a beating in the honey extractor. I prefer alexander veils and generally work on hives without gloves, unless I am doing a lot of work on a hive and they seem pissy. I wear a light blue button-down and light colored jeans or cutoffs, since bees interpret dark colors as predators like bears. I use a [Dadant smoker][m00926-smoker] and a generic hive tool that I inherited from another beekeeper friend. I extract honey in a 4-frame extractor that I share with the [Chicago Honey Co-Op](http://www.chicagohoneycoop.com/ "A honey and bee co-op."), and bottle it in 4, 8, and 12 oz canning-style jars.

I use a Bikes At Work 32" trailer that I hitch to my [1974 Peugeot PX-10][px-10], which I bought offa Craigslist and lovingly built into a beautiful touring bike. It features a Stronglight randonneuring crankset and a vintage Brooks Professional S saddle, among other little nerdy bike parts. At one point it was all French and period-appropriate, but I upgraded a lot of its parts. I use an old Jim Blackburn rack with a custom smoker holster made by [Levi Borrenson](https://twitter.com/LJBike "Levi's Twitter account."), and carry junk in orange [Ortlieb Panniers][back-roller-classic].

I keep actual field notes in Field Notes.

#### And what software?

I work in [Adobe CS3][creative-suite] because I don't know any better, and most of my image processing and layout work requires little time. [Instagram][instagram-ios] makes my beekeeping and all of the stuff I pick up off the ground look good. I use [Gmail][] and [Google Drive][google-drive] as organizational tools, but I still use a Moleskine weekly planner. I play [Hundreds][hundreds-ios] and [Osmos][osmos-ios] to relieve anxiety.  

Quite Strong and I use [Basecamp][] for all of our collaboration and communication, though we frequently lament the loss of Google Wave, the most perfect collaboration tool created. YEAH, WHAT.
 
As fuel for my bee smoker, I use newspaper or used paper bags to start, then a couple of 4x4-ish pieces of coffee bag burlap from my bicycle-business friend [Grinderman Coffee](http://grindermancoffee.com/ "Bicycle-delivered coffee in Chicago."). Once the fire is going strong, I throw in wood chips, which are usually plentiful at community gardens. To dampen the fire and prevent embers from flying out, I loosely pack the lid with grass, though I have been known to pack it with mint so the bees can enjoy a lovely minty smoke. All that and a loving and peaceful vibe is the only bee-related software I use.

#### What would be your dream setup?

I would love to get a piece of land in the city, sandwiched between Elston Avenue and the Chicago River. I'd grow a ton of milkweed to sustain a lot of monarch butterflies, and let the lot fill up with nectar-rich plants like white and yellow sweet clover, dutch clover, and dandelions. I'd keep beehives there and teach classes as often as I could. I'd love to keep more bees in public places like schools and churches, to encourage curiosity and an understanding of natural systems. I'd be a not-for-profit and throw big parties with lots of free beer to raise money for more hives – and hiring a part-time helper.

The setup I have for my illustration freelance work is already a dream. I work with many amazing friends, and have a fish tank with a [baby fish](https://twitter.com/someoffice/status/302835355617472513 "A photo of a baby fish.") right next to me every day.