---
title: Greg Wohlwend
summary: Game designer (Hundreds, Gasketball, Solipskier)
categories:
- designer
- game
- mac
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm [Greg Wohlwend](http://aeiowu.com/ "Greg's website") and I usually illustrate video games. Most recently an iOS game called [Hundreds][hundreds-ios]. Less recently [Gasketball][gasketball-ios] and [Solipskier][solipskier-ios]. I also perform random acts of graphic design like the Indie Game: The Movie poster. 
 
#### What hardware do you use?

I have a late 2008 15" [MBP][macbook-pro] with 4 extra gigs of aftermarket RAM. I use a Logitech [M305 wireless USB mouse][m305] that is hesitantly dying. I also have an [iPhone 4][iphone-4] and two iPads ([1st][ipad] and [3rd][ipad-3] generations) for business and pleasure. For sketching, I use Bienfang 4x4 and 10x10 cross section graph paper and [Bic Cristal][cristal] black ballpoint pens. I occasionally draw with a 6"x8" [Wacom Intuos3 tablet][intuos] and listen to stuff on a pair of [KOSS Porta Pro headphones][porta-pro] because my ear holes are weirdly shaped. 

Sometimes I need to get video of something, for that I have a [Sanyo Xacti VPC-FH1A][xacti-vpc-fh1a] digital camcorder that I bought for cheap because it burns red lines onto the video occasionally.
 
#### And what software?

I do just about everything with [Adobe CS5][creative-suite]. [Illustrator][], [Photoshop][], [After Effects][after-effects] & [Flash][] for some game prototypes, trailers, raster and vector art. I view the Internet through [Chrome][] and make it with [TextWrangler][] and [Transmit][]. I've tried [Coda][] but it felt sluggish on my "ancient" MBP. Sometimes I have to make or edit audios and I use [Audacity][], [SFXR][] and [GarageBand][] for that. I just installed [Cloud App][cloudapp] via a suggestion from Zach Gage and it has changed my life when it comes to sharing screenshots. I do [a lot of ⌘⇧4ing](https://vimeo.com/36999880 "Greg's video of his screenshots."). For modeling 3D stuff I like [Silo 3D][silo] because it's pretty simple and mostly grid based. For anything more complicated I use [Cinema 4D][cinema-4d]. I write things in [iA Writer][ia-writer] and occasionally do digital painting in [ArtRage Studio][artrage-studio]. Sometimes I need to edit/create fonts so for that I use [TypeTool][].

On iOS I have a ton of apps just like everyone else but [LiveView][liveview-ios] and [Dropbox][dropbox-ios] help me make games.
 
#### What would be your dream setup?

Basically that one scene from Grandma's Boy. Has someone said that already? Honestly, I like only having a laptop, I'd upgrade to a Retina MBP. I'd also like an [Oculus Rift][oculus-rift]. In addition I would work in a Swiss Family Robinson style treehouse with my favorite people everyday. We have wireless power. It's always Summer or Fall. There are numerous slides, zip-lines and tin-can telephones. And we can pause time and never age during the pause and we also have teleporters. Gotta dream big.