---
title: Steve Klabnik
summary: Software developer
categories:
- developer
- linux
- software
- web
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

Hi there, I'm [Steve](http://steveklabnik.com/ "Steve's website."). \*waves\*

I, like most people, am in a constant state of change. This particular snapshot of me features:

* Writing lots of software. My [GitHub profile](https://github.com/steveklabnik "Steve's GitHub account.") claims that I've contributed 2880 things to various projects in the last 365 days. My longest streak was 126 days. In a row!
* Reading lots of philosophy books. Mostly those French guys you roll your eyes at.
* Travel. I got my passport in 2010, and put a single stamp in it. In 2011, I got 4 more. At this point, I will need more pages shortly after the new year.
* Waiting patiently for the fall of capitalism. If I could help accelerate this I would. Getting kinda impatient over here.

#### What hardware do you use?

Right now I use an [X1 Carbon][thinkpad-x1-carbon] for all of my computing. It's whatever its max specs are. Once there is 100% free hardware that's full-sized, I'll buy it. The Carbon is pretty damn close.

Before I started caring strongly about my personal freedoms I was a staunch Apple user. I got rid of a 13" [MacBook Air][macbook-air] when I acquired this machine.

Until this year, I did not have a cell phone. I have an [iPhone 5][iphone-5] now. After my two years are up, I'll probably go without one again.

When I just want to mindlessly consume, I use a full-sized iPad. It's pretty okay for reading the web, great at PDFs, and has fun games.

#### And what software?

I currently run [#!][crunchbang] (pronounced kɹʌntʃbæŋ(ɡ)) Linux. I like it. I use [Arch Linux][arch-linux] most of the time, but I gave #! a go this time so I wouldn't have to fiddle.

I use a tiling window manager. Usually it's [XMonad][], but #! comes with [OpenBox][], and it's pretty okay.

I spend 80% of my time in [Firefox][] and an [xterm][]. Inside that xterm, I run [bash][], [vim][], [git][], and [irssi][]. I need to get better at [tmux][].

I spend 10% of my time in [Thunderbird][], for email.

I spend another 8% of my time using tools to protect my privacy, like [Tor][] and [GPG][gnupg], and 1% in random things I don't use often enough to remember. Like occasionally I'll need to edit a picture and open [GIMP][] or need to open some sort of document that [LibreOffice][] can handle. Occasionally I'll get an instant message on [Pidgin][].

I write my presentations in [Reveal.js][] or the '[rabbit][]' gem.

On the iPhone I mostly use [iMessage][] and the [Twitter app][twitter-ios].

On the iPad I mostly practice with [Duolingo][duolingo-ios] and play [ReRave][rerave-ios].

I use a few web services, though I'm generally replacing them with equivalent desktop apps, or copies that I run on my own servers. I run a Jabber server with [ejabberd][], and will soon have a full replacement for [Google Apps][google-apps], which I've used over the last few years. [Twitter][] and Duolingo are the two largest that I use right now that I don't have a good replacement for. I enjoy [GitHub][], but could live without it.

In general, I don't tweak my configuration files.

    steveklabnik@dhwty:~$ cat ~/.vimrc
    syntax on
    filetype plugin indent on
    
    set expandtab
    
    set paste
    set ruler
    steveklabnik@dhwty:~$

Yup.

#### What would be your dream setup?

A computer that actually worked, and worked correctly most of the time. I've been searching for quite a while, such a thing seems not to actually exist. I have a sneaking suspicion software is fundamentally, irreparably broken. But a man can dream...

Given that can probably never exist, a more realistic dream is a machine that has 100% free hardware and software that works well. The Lemote just doesn't have enough power to actually be useful.