---
title: Mike Monteiro
summary: Designer, director (Mule)
categories:
- designer
- mac
- writer
credits:
  name: Jeffrey Zeldman
  url: http://www.flickr.com/photos/zeldman/8614963668/
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm [Mike Monteiro](http://mikemonteiro.com/ "Mike's website."). I'm a designer by trade, and the Design Director at [Mule](http://muledesign.com/ "Mule's website."). I suppose I'm also a writer. Both are accidental.

#### What hardware do you use?

Oh man, I just got myself a shiny new 13 inch retina [MacBook Pro][macbook-pro], so I'm still in the honeymoon phase with it. I spend a lot of time staring at the screen and saying "Wow, that's nice." I also have an [iMac][] at work that's starting to get a little long in the tooth which is probably getting put out to pasture as soon as Apple revs their displays, and I get something to hook up to the MBP.

But that's all boring.

My secret hardware weapon sits on the corner of my desk. It's a phone. Plugged into the wall and everything. You can do amazing shit with it. For example, I've found that you can consolidate a 24 volley e-mail thread with a client down to five minutes if you call them on the phone. And, unlike e-mail, you can read people's tone and awkward pauses. Not to mention you can actually hear them "LOL". So I get a kick out of hearing people mention they no longer use the phone.

I take notes in a Moleskine, although if Jim Coudal is reading this please tell him that I actually meant Field Notes. And I wish I could tell you that the notes were interesting, or that I "sketch", or whatever people are now calling it. But, honestly, it's all chickenscratch. I do, however, make a habit of writing down the name of everyone who's sitting around a table. I suck at remembering names.

And I write with a Uniball Roller. Fine point. The black ones. All other pens suck.

#### And what software?

I still use [Photoshop][] quite a bit, but not as much as I used to. I use [Illustrator][] when I need to, but never without breaking into a cold sweat as I dread how much time I'll have until it force quits. (It's still not as good as [Freehand][] was when they killed it.)

I wrote my entire book in [Google Docs][google-docs] (err, Drive) which made everyone very, very nervous. Although I've been toying with [Editorially][] lately and it looks very promising.

I love [Keynote][] probably more than anyone, with the possible exception of Tom Coates, but he uses it in very unnatural ways.

We use [Campfire][], with a [Flint][] strap-on, to communicate throughout the office. And [Basecamp][] to communicate with our clients.

Haven't used a feed reader since [Twitter][] launched. And I get that through [Tweetbot][tweetbot-ios], unless I'm on the desktop where I just go to the site.

And I still prefer [Safari][] to [Chrome][], because the Chrome UI is a goddamn eyesore.

#### What would be your dream setup?

An incredibly big work table lined with bins full of LEGO, sorted by color and shape. What? You did say dream.