---
title: Sabra Botch-Jones
summary: Forensic toxicologist, researcher
categories:
- mac
- researcher
- toxicologist
- windows
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm Sabra R. Botch-Jones, a rogue forensic toxicologist, researcher/writer and owner of [fTox Consulting](http://ftoxconsulting.com/ "Sabra's website."). I provide consulting services for issues related to forensic toxicology including scientific writing, data analysis, quality control and legal case reviews. 

#### What hardware do you use?

When it comes to consulting and writing my lifeline to the world is my [MacBook Air][macbook-air], iPad and iPhone. The ability to have all my devices synced and access documents with ease is essential for my work. I use Apple's [Magic Mouse][magic-mouse] with my MacBook, I love how it works on a variety of surfaces. As a mom of a 7 month old, I find myself working in the oddest places. A [QNAP TS-212-US][ts-212] NAS server with two 1.5 TB Seagate Barracuda 7200 hard drives houses some of my data and eventually it will house more, but I utilize [Dropbox][] for the bulk of my data. 

As a forensic toxicologist it's all about the hardware. I could write pages about the instrumentation that we use. To begin testing a biological sample for the presence of alcohol and other drugs we conduct a preliminary screen on a relatively sensitive, yet not always specific instrument. This includes running prepared biological samples, primarily blood and urine but also tissue samples, on a number of types of instrumentation. The samples are run on a Thermo Scientific [ITQ Series Gas Chromatograph Ion Trap Mass Spectrometer][gc-ion-trap-ms] for basic and neutral compounds. For acidic compounds, samples are run on a [PerkinElmer Flexar Ultra High Performance Liquid Chromatograph][flexar-uhplc] (UHPLC) with an ultraviolet (UV)/Visible Spectrophotometer detector. Enzyme Linked Immunosorbent Assay ([ELISA](http://www.immunalysis.com/elisa "Details on the ELISA screening technique.")) is also conducted. ELISA is operated by the [Tecan EVO 75/2][freedom-evo-75] Workstation. Alcohol analysis is conducted on a PerkinElmer [TurboMatrix Head Space-Clarus GC][turbomatrix-hs-clarus-gc]. Quantitation and confirmation is conducted on either a Thermo Scientific TSQ [Quantum Access MAX Triple Stage Quadrupole Mass Spectrometer][quantum-access-max-triple-stage-quadrupole-mass-spectrometer] or an AB SCIEX [4000 QTRAP LC/MS/MS System][4000-qtrap-system] with a Shimadzu UPLC. Windows-based computers are used to run these instruments, but type is not important other than plenty of space to house the data. 

#### And what software?

The fTox Consulting website and [blog](http://ftoxconsulting.com/?page_id=14 "Sabra's weblog.") were created by my husband Bryan W. Jones using [WordPress][]. In addition, web developer Jody Goodwin was consulted for some of the graphics and CSS optimization in the existing website. 

Consulting requires that I seamlessly share data. I am trying to embrace all of the MacBook Air's provided software along with Apple products. I use [TextEdit][] and [Google Docs][google-docs] most of the time. I love how easily it is to share documents via Google Drive. One of the most frustrating things about not using [Microsoft Word][word] is interacting with others who use a PC and losing formatting between programs. I am trying to embrace [Keynote][] for my presentations which I give on a fairly regular basis, but at times I am at the mercy of the organization and their software packages. At those times I revert back to [Powerpoint][] for presentations. When it comes to freelance writing, I use [Adobe InCopy][incopy] to keep the editors happy.

[Thermo Scientific's LCQUAN][lcquan] supports LC/MS/MS data management, and [Xcalibur][] software is a Windows-based data system that provides instrument control and data analysis for the mass spectrometers. Data obtained on PerkinElmer Instruments is managed through the [TotalChrom Workstations][totalchrom]. ELISA data is managed through [NaviTrak][]. AB SCIEX [Analyst][], [DiscoveryQuant][] and [MultiQuant][] are used for data acquisition and analysis on the 4000 QTRAP.

Professionally I use [LinkedIn][] to keep connected to colleagues and take advantage of their groups function for specific areas of interest. I am beginning to use [Twitter][] ([@sabraruvera](https://twitter.com/SabraRuvera "Sabra's Twitter account.")) as my resistance to using it is waning. [GoToMeeting][] pops up in my life on a regular basis now, as I consult and interact with people all over the globe.

#### What would be your dream setup?

The dream: a massive room with floor to ceiling bookshelves housing every book I have ever wanted to own, including those stupidly expensive textbooks that are great resources. I would have multiple large monitors for my computer and unlimited processing power with amazing internet speed (Google Fiber, I’m looking at you!). 

I am not a very "techie" person other than talking about instrumentation, but I constantly run out of storage on my devices. For my website and blog, I would have Jody design my website from scratch for more personalization and options. My own private island (with a fully functional analytical chemistry lab) would be nice too.