---
title: Cory Schmitz
summary: Graphic designer, illustrator
categories:
- designer
- illustrator
- mac
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm Cory Schmitz! I'm a [graphic designer & illustrator](http://coryschmitz.com "Cory's website.") living in Chicago. I work with a variety of clients in the video game industry, but I do a lot of non-game related work, too! I've worked with Sony, VOX Media (The Verge, Polygon), Anamanaguchi, Double Fine, & many more. I'm probably best known for my work on [Sound Shapes][sound-shapes] for PS Vita & PS3, & [my](http://coryschmitz.com/filter/Branding/Sucker-Punch-Branding "Cory's Sucker Punch logo work.") [logo](http://coryschmitz.com/filter/Branding/Polygon-Branding "Cory's Polygon logo work.") [work](http://coryschmitz.com/filter/Branding/17-Bit-Branding "Cory's 17-Bit logo work."). I also love making [posters](http://coryschmitz.com/filter/Poster "Cory's posters.") & [album covers](http://coryschmitz.com/filter/Packaging "Cory's album covers.")!

#### What hardware do you use?

My primary setup is a 27" [iMac][] (one of the fancy new thin ones). It's got 16GB RAM, a 1TB Fusion Drive, & a 3.4GHz Quad-core Intel Core i7 processor. I just got it like a month ago, it's really nice. I use the [keyboard][] & [Magic Trackpad][magic-trackpad] that came with it. I like trackpads slightly more that mice. I use a [Tursion 10" x 6.25" tablet][tursion] for drawing. It's a generic brand (I think), but it's as good as any Wacom I've used. I don't draw very much at all, though. I have a little [WD My Passport 1TB USB external hard drive][my-passport] for [Time Machine][time-machine] backups. For seating, I use a [Herman Miller SAYL chair][sayl] (in all black). For headphones I use the [Sony MDR-V6s][mdr-v6].

I do most of my work at home. My on-the-go computer is a [Macbook Air][macbook-air] (from 2011). I also have an [iPad Mini][ipad-mini]. Occasionally, I like to use the [Paper][paper-ios] app for sketching. I use the [Pogo Connect][connect.3] pressure-sensitive stylus, which Paper supports. I rarely sketch on actual paper, but when I do, I like to use these simple ballpoint pens from Muji. I carry all this in either a big ol' Sag Life backpack or my normal-sized Herschel Heritage backpack. I have another WD My Passport 1TB USB external hard drive in there for the Macbook's Time Machine backups.

I also carry around a lot of non-work-related items, such as a [PS Vita][vita], [3DS XL][3ds-xl], [Karma 4G hotspot][karma] (crazy useful), a Hobonichi planner, & other miscellaneous items (like [this thing][powerstation-mini]). My phone is an [iPhone 5][iphone-5] but I'm considering getting a [Sony Xperia Z][xperia-z] next. When I'm on-the-go I just use the Apple Earpod headphones.

I like to take pictures too. My favorite film camera is my [Contax TVS][tvs]. I got it for a steal on eBay & I love it. It feels luxurious. I usually use Fujifilm 400 film. I just got a bunch of expired Fujifilm 400 that I'm excited to use, too. For digital I use a [Ricoh GR Digital IV][gr-digital-iv] (white), which I just got from eBay (it's *amazing*). I use a 4GB [Eye-Fi card][eye-fi] with my digital camera, & it's really cool & works really well.

#### And what software?

I do almost all my designing in [Photoshop CS6][photoshop] & [Illustrator CS6][illustrator]. Occasionally I'll open [InDesign CS6][indesign] if I need to lay out a book or PDF. If I ever need to quickly vectorize something, I use [Cocoapotrace][]. I got these awesome [Frenden Photoshop brushes](http://frenden.myshopify.com/products/photoshop_pencil_and_inking_brushes "Photoshop brushes by Frenden."), but I haven't gotten a chance to use them too much, yet. For notes & lists I use [Evernote][]. I use [Breaktime][] to remind myself to get up & stretch. For sharing lil' files quickly I use [CloudApp][]. I keep all my design work synced between my two computers using [Dropbox][]. I also use Dropbox for sharing large files (Although I might switch to [Minbox][]). If I ever need to write something, I use [iA Writer][ia-writer]. [Messages][], [Skype][], [Tweetbot][] ([follow me](https://twitter.com/coryschmitz/ "Cory's Twitter account.")), & [iTunes][] are always open as well. I use [Mail][] for email, but I'll switch to [Mailbox][] when the OS X version is released. I keep my schedule with [iCal][].

#### What would be your dream setup?

I just want a bigger/nicer desk & then I'll be all set <3