---
title: Jeffrey Ely
summary: Professor of economics (Northwestern University)
categories:
- linux
- mac
- professor
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I am Jeffrey Ely, Professor of Economics at Northwestern University. I teach and do research on game theory and information economics. Basically I try to understand how to channel selfish motivations into good social outcomes. I write a blog called [Cheap Talk](http://cheaptalk.org/ "The Cheap Talk site."), which is mostly about how to think about everyday situations through the lens of economics and game theory.

Recently I have started a venture modernizing pricing mechanisms for sports, concerts, etc called [Purple Pricing](http://www.nupurplepricing.com/ "A smart sport game ticket service."). My partner, Sandeep Baliga, and I are applying our game theory research to understand how to remove gamesmanship from the ticket-buying experience.

#### What hardware do you use?

I have Macs everywhere. [MacBook Air][macbook-air] is my portable, an old [MacBook][] repurposed as a desktop at home and an [iMac][] in the office. My phone is an [iPhone 5][iphone-5]. For most of my adult life, however, I was a Linux devotee. This was partly hobby and partly for the power/flexibility/freedom of Unix and free software. As I get older other hobbies have taken the forefront and I have less time for messing with things like ifconfig and Xorg.conf but I still rely on Linux for my mail server, [Python][], and various tools that don't exist anywhwere else. So I have a tiny little box under my desktop which runs an incredibly minimal headless [Ubuntu][] installation.

#### And what software?

The three most important pieces of software for me are [TextMate][] and [Safari][] running on the Mac, and [Postfix][]/IMAP running on my Linux box. With TextMate I write papers in [LaTeX][], with Safari I write my blog and waste precious time and my mail server setup is responsible for organizing pretty much all of my life. I have about 10 different email addresses which keep different parts of my life in their own channels. I write probably 20 emails to myself a day consisting of reminders, thoughts jotted-down and just general life-journalism. I think most standalone software for "getting organized" is redundant once one understands how to get the most out of old-fashioned email.

#### What would be your dream setup?

Computers have ceased being an end in themselves for me now - I just think of hardware and software as just a means to get as quickly as possible past the routine and to the novelty-horizon of whatever I am working on. So my dream setup would simply be to have some combination of secretarial staff and predictive algorithm that can figure out at every moment what I need done but am not interested in doing myself and do it for me. Barring that I think my setup right now is pretty efficient.

If I could ask for a marginal improvement in technology it would be to allow me to compose emails easily in all possible situations as unobtrusively as possible. Thoughts arrive at any old time and I want to get them down as soon as I have them organized. I would like to come as close to direct transcription of my thoughts as possible. Siri is getting closer because I can dictate emails even in my car while driving. But I can't use Siri when I am in the middle of a conversation and need to momentarily mentally check out to record an idea.

I could imagine some kind of device on my index finger where I can write words in air, even with my hands in my pockets, and the device figures out what i am writing and puts it in an email addressed to me.