---
title: Julian Frost
summary: Animator, illustrator
categories:
- animator
- illustrator
- mac
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

[I'm](http://julianfrost.co.nz/things/ "Julian's website.") a 2D animator and illustrator and occasional game designer. My best-known work is probably the Dumb Ways to Die [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IJNR2EpS0jw "The 'Dumb Ways to Die' video on YouTube.") and [game][dumb-ways-to-die-ios], and the [Skype][] emoticon [animations](http://julianfrost.co.nz/things/skype-emoticons/ "Julian's Skype animations.").

#### What hardware do you use?

My back pain finally exceeded the pain of paying $3000 so last month I upgraded my small [Cintiq][] drawing tablet to a large one. I like it so much I even got all the bubbles out of the screen protector. The tablet is connected to a 2010 [MacBook Pro][macbook-pro] which is connected to a keyboard and headphones. Everything sits on an adjustable height IKEA table amidst piles of bank statements, old to-do lists, CDs, small heads made of [Super Sculpey][super-sculpey], and USB backup disks.

For scribbling ideas I use old envelopes and the backs of printouts. I've tried drawing in nice notebooks but I feel like I'm ruining them so I always come back to my old friend scrap paper.

#### And what software?

[Flash][]. For animation, but it's my preferred tool for shape-based illustration too. You can edit the points in a shape (like [Illustrator][]) but pushing and pulling the edges is the nice feature. It's like playing with 2D plasticine.

For line-based illustration and photo-editing and gif-making I use [Photoshop][]. Neither Flash or Photoshop are perfect but I'm so good at the shortcuts now I can never abandon them.

Other: Flash CS6 (for exporting vector artwork, which Flash CC won't do for some reason), [After Effects][after-effects] (for editing video and trying to make Flash animation look less sterile), [Quicktime 7][quicktime-pro] (for crunching videos), [Chrome][] (for reading news websites instead of working), [iTunes][], [Spotify][], [Indesign][] (making sketches look respectable before sending them to people), [Audacity][] (sound), [Dreamweaver][] (web), [Filezilla][] (FTP), [NameChanger][] (renaming lots of files at once - e.g. animation frames), Skype (working remotely) and [Time Machine][time-machine] (backup).

#### What would be your dream setup?

Animation is the tedious process of transcribing acting. It's easy to pull a face or act out a body movement, so I'd love a tool that recorded my motion and instantly turned it into editable 2D animation.

Also I would love to ditch the Cintiq for magical drawing paper where you can CMD+Z, CMD+C/V, CMD+T and CMD+SHIFT+S.

Also I would prefer not to work by myself because I wander into the dreary corners of my mind a little too often.

Otherwise everything's good.