---
title: Madelin Woods
summary: Developer (Square), artist
categories:
- artist
- developer
- illustrator
- mac
- web
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm [Madelin Woods](http://www.madelinwoods.com/ "Madelin's website."), an engineer, artist, illustrator, and urban gardener. I live in San Francisco.

I have been working at [Square][] for the last 3 years, as a front-end engineer, building out the UI and front-end architecture for a handful of our web products. I'm currently working on our Receipts team, but I've helped launch products like [Square Market][square-market] and gift cards in the past. I tend to hack around a lot, making cool things with code, watercolors, laser cutters, and popsicle sticks.

#### What hardware do you use?

I love my [11" Macbook Air][macbook-air] - though it's not super great for running a lot of services and applications at work, it's light and doesn't make too many funny noises. When I'm at my desk, I'll typically have it plugged into a [Cinema Display][cinema-display] for the bigger screen. I do a lot of pair programming, so I'm constantly jumping between different people's computers and [iMacs][imac] set up as pairing machines.

My home laptop is a 13" Macbook Air, which I use mainly for illustration projects, typically with a Cinema Display as well. When I'm home, I mostly just use my [iPad 2][ipad-2]. It's just the right size for drawing, reading, and air playing my music or movies with my [Apple TV][apple-tv]. I use a [Pencil][] for drawing with [Paper][paper-ios], though all the fancy Bluetooth features don't work with my current iPad version, so we'll have to see about that. :'(

I have a black [iPhone 5][iphone-5]. I use it so much that it dies at least once or twice a day. I should probably do something about that too.

In attempts to remove myself from electronic gadgets and screens all day, I've taken up physical art as a practice. I carry a Moleskine sketchbook with a [Quiver][double-pen-quiver] to hold my Muji 0.5 black pens. I also use a Windsor & Newton travel watercolor set, for coloring on the go, and have an assortment of Canson mixed-media sketchbooks for the thicker paper. I have so many pens and brushes that my girl friend [Anastasia](https://www.facebook.com/armadilloshop "Anatasia's Facebook page.") hand-made me the most perfect pencil case. Water's kind of hard to carry around, so I use a [Zig Water Brush2O Pen][zig-water-colour-system-h20-brush].

#### And what software?

I run whatever the latest version of [OS X][mac-os-x] is, and am usually programming in [Ruby on Rails][rails], [JavaScript][] ([Ember][] & [CoffeeScript][] when possible), Slim and [Sass][]. I write my code in [Sublime Text 2][sublime-text] (tricked out with a ton of extra installed packages), use [iTerm2][] for my terminal, the latest version of [Chrome][] for browsing and development, and [Divvy][] to organize my screen.

We've recently switched over to using Atlassian products at work, so we use [Stash][] for our [Git][] code management, [Jira][] for bug tracking, and [HipChat][] for team chats. I also use [iMessage][], [Google Hangouts][google-hangouts], and [FaceTime][] for chatting. I use [xScope][] for color checking and pixel measuring, [BrowserStack][] for IE testing, and [Litmus][] for email testing.

[Day One][day-one] is amazing for all my personal writing, anything from journaling to jotting down poems and stories to [morning pages](http://juliacameronlive.com/basic-tools/morning-pages/ "An article about morning pages."). I love Day One because it's super easy to sync across all my devices, and backs up to [Dropbox][]. I use Dropbox for all my file sharing, photo storage, and all that good stuff. I try not to look at feeds of things on the internet anymore, but I post to [Instagram](http://instagram.com/madelinw "Madelin's Instagram account.") and [Tumblr](http://madelindrawsthings.tumblr.com/ "Madeline's Tumblr account.") to share pictures of my latest art & illustration projects. I really enjoy the art community on Instagram, so I do still check that occasionally, and I try to keep the people I follow down to a minimum of only folks who inspire me.

I use Paper on my iPad for drawing, and have been using [TuneIn][tunein-radio-ios] to stream [FIP radio](http://fipradio.fr/player "A French radio station."), a station I fell in love with while living for a month in Paris this past April.

I read a lot, and usually just use [iBooks][ibooks-ios] on my iPad, because I like being able to highlight things and refer back to them. I've been using [Yo][yo-ios] to bug all my friends and disrupt entire meetings. I'm really bad at being on time for things, so [Uber][uber-ios] helps with that.

#### What would be your dream setup?

A big room full of plants, an easel, never ending supply of canvases, paints, papers, and brushes. Occasionally I find this place, it alternates between [my apartment](http://instagram.com/p/ixIf7Qm4pR/ "Madelin's photo of her apartment."), a secret room I found at work, and the magic of [Airbnb](https://www.airbnb.com/rooms/897554 "An Airbnb apartment in Paris."), but I really just need to find the time to enjoy it.

It would also be great if I could code and use all my apps without devices and screens and computers. Somewhere between Her and Minority Report, without the creep factor would be great.