---
title: Abby Howard
summary: Cartoonist (The Last Halloween, Junior Scientist Power Hour)
categories:
- cartoonist
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I am [Abby Howard](http://abby-howard.tumblr.com/ "Abby's Tumblr site.") and I draw comics! I currently have two different comics running, and I put them up on the Internet for free.

#### What hardware do you use?

For my lineart, which is any black and white art I do, I use pen and paper. For the pens, I tend towards [Microns][pigma-micron], which are a little pricey but well worth it for the line quality. The paper varies on how clean and polished I want the finished piece to be. One of the best papers for line quality is smooth Bristol, which is stiff and durable and very, very smooth. That's what I use for my more linework-heavy project, [The Last Halloween](http://www.last-halloween.com/ "The Last Halloween comic."). But for my goofier comic, [Junior Scientist Power Hour](http://www.jspowerhour.com/ "The Junior Scientist Power Hour comic."), I just use computer paper, which goes to show you really don't need a bunch of fancy stuff to make comics!

Of course, with pen and paper, you have to somehow get the finished product into your computer, so you'll need a scanner or some amazing photography skills. For pages sized 8.5 x 11 or smaller, any old standard scanner should do nicely. But if you're working larger than that, which I do often, you'll need a bigger scanner! I use a [Mustek A3 2400S][a3-2400s], which is the most affordable high quality oversized scanner, capable of scanning up to 11x17. It's awesome.

Sometimes I use color, which I always do digitally (colors don't scan well), and for that I use a [Wacom Cintiq 24HD][cintiq], which is one of the pricier tablets. I like it because it's big! But if you're looking for a more affordable tablet of the same quality, I've heard excellent things about the [Surface Pro 2][surface-pro-2], which is far more portable, as well. You can hang out in coffee shops with your tablet, looking like the coolest cat in the crib.

#### And what software?

Once I have the comics on my computer, it comes time to edit them! I use regular old [Photoshop][], and usually I only have to rotate and adjust the levels so the darks are darker, but sometimes I have to clean them up with the eraser tool and fill in big black areas. A question I tend to get a lot is how I manage to make my comics look clean and crisp, and that's all to do with adjusting the levels! You can also adjust the threshold and get the same results, but I use levels. You can find the tool by selecting Image > Adjustments > Levels. A window pops up and you move the little arrows closer together until the art looks awesome.

#### What would be your dream setup?

My dream setup is basically what I have now! I have a massive tablet, a massive scanner, a lovely drawing desk, and a desktop to handle my giant files. My chair is terrible, though, so maybe I'd swap it out for a more comfy one! Oh, and maybe an EVEN bigger scanner. Maybe one that could scan up to 18x24, so I could do full-size posters. I think that doesn't exist, but a girl can dream.

And a robot to clean up my eraser shavings for me. Those things tend to pile up.