---
title: Ben Heck
summary: Maker, builder, hacker
categories:
- hacker
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

My name is Benjamin J. Heckendorn and I'm the host of [element14's The Ben Heck Show](http://www.element14.com/community/community/experts/benheck "Ben's weekly show."), a weekly show at the [element14 online community](http://www.element14.com/community/welcome "element14's online community site.") that covers electronics engineering and the modding community. I live in Madison, Wisconsin. 

Before the show, electronics was always a hobby. It wasn't my job or education, but I was always interested in it. I used to be a graphic artist, which is one of the reasons the show and its projects are visually sharp. My background influenced what I do now.

In 2004, I quite literally quit my day job to write a book. I had been “hacking” projects on the side and people were paying for them, and I decided to enter the electronic modding world full-time. Then the element14 Community entered the picture and helped quite a bit. Their sponsorship allows me to make projects that I probably wouldn't have been able to make before – either because they were too expensive or too hard to justify. In a show format, you can explore new ideas and try crazy things.

#### What hardware do you use?

We use a lot of CNC machinery on the show. I have a [CNC machine](http://www.element14.com/community/docs/DOC-24749/l/episode-2-ben-builds-a-portable-cnc-router "A show where Ben builds a CNC machine.") I use to mill large objects and do plastic and woodworking. I use my Epilogue laser cutter a lot as well.

I have a [MakerBot 3D printer][replicator] that I use to 3D print parts, but I also have my [own portable 3D printer](http://www.element14.com/community/docs/DOC-36297/l/episode-19-watch-ben-heck-builds-a-portable-3d-printer "A show where Ben builds a 3D printer.") that comes in handy! Along those lines, we have a [3D Systems Cube 3D Printer][cube] and a new 3D scanner we've been testing out for an episode of the show.

Of course, I have computers for laying out all of my designs. We also use a variety of hand tools, the favorite of which is my pair of [tweezers](http://www.element14.com/community/docs/DOC-54938/l/episode-89-watch-ben-heck-s-basic-tools-episode "A show where Ben discusses his basic tools.") that I cannot live without. I have a nice [Weller soldering iron][wesd51] from element14 that is great for modding. These are all the major hardware I use on a daily basis.

In terms of favorites, I enjoy using microcontrollers. We use microcontrollers quite a bit to create our builds and those are a lot of fun. [Arduino][] is a great place to start for those people who are new to hacking and modding.

#### And what software?

I do a lot of my layout in [Adobe Illustrator][illustrator], the two-dimensional art program, because of my background as a graphic artist. Often when laying out designs I'll draw it in 2D because that's faster than 3D.
We also use [Autodesk 123][123d-design] to make three-dimensional objects. Autodesk is becoming popular for DIYers, and they offer a lot of free options on their website to learn from if you're new to hacking.

Of course, we edit element14's The Ben Heck Show using [Adobe Premiere][premiere]. I have been an Adobe guy since the 90s. I still use [Photoshop][] quite a bit from my graphic artist days. 

Element14 has [CadSoft EAGLE][eagle], which is quite standard for printed circuit board (PCB) layout. There is also a free version of EAGLE's program which is very common, well-documented and helpful for people looking to design PCBs.

#### What would be your dream setup?

The shop I have now is pretty great, but I do wish we had more outlets. That’s really the one thing we’re lacking. We need plenty of power rails and a clean power supply or power source.

I don’t necessarily need more space - just better utilization of it; something that is easy to get around in and is designed for hacking. There’s nothing super fancy I would want or need out of a shop. Really that’s just where you make things. The tools and skills are really what matter, and I already have a good set of tools.

That being said, a better break room – or a break room in general – wouldn’t hurt!