---
title: Steve Gaynor
summary: Game designer, writer, co-founder (The Fullbright Company)
categories:
- designer
- game
- windows
- writer
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

Hi, I'm Steve Gaynor and I'm co-founder of an independent video game studio called [The Fullbright Company](http://thefullbrightcompany.com/ "The Fullbright Company's website."). I was the writer and designer of our first game, [Gone Home][gone-home], which came out in 2013. Before going indie I worked on the BioShock series for a number of years.

#### What hardware do you use?

I work on a PC with [Windows 7][windows-7] 64-bit installed. The machine isn't super ultra mega high-spec: an Intel i5-3570k CPU at 3.4ghz, 8 gigs of RAM, an NVIDIA GTX 560 Ti video card with 1gb of video RAM, and 3 hard drives totaling about 3.5 TB of storage. I have two monitors, one that's 16x9 aspect ratio and one that's 4x3 for testing the game and our website at different dimensions. I use a standard wired Microsoft 2-button mouse, a backlit Logitech keyboard, a wired [Xbox 360 controller][xbox-360-controller-for-windows], and powered noise-canceling [Bose QC15 headphones][quietcomfort-15]. My monitor stands are piles of hardback books and magazines.

#### And what software?

We made the game using the [Unity][] engine, which we have 4.x pro licenses for. I also use [Audacity][] for editing sound, [Photoshop CS5][photoshop] for editing images, [Perforce][] for source control, [Notepad++][notepad-plusplus] for editing text, and occasionally [Maya][] for editing 3D stuff. [Steam][] is always running, and [Chrome][] is my web browser.

#### What would be your dream setup?

Honestly I'm pretty happy with what I've got! As we go forward I wouldn't mind upgrading some of my hardware (ram, video card, processor) as need be but my OS is on a solid state drive and I don't do anything that's mega taxing on my system. It's a good thing to have a machine that a fairly high-end gamer might have, but that isn't so overpowered that you can't tell if your game is poorly optimized without loading it up on a target spec machine. I actually would like to replace my 16x9 monitor with something that displays higher res than 1920x1080 -- I know some gamers are already playing on higher res monitors than that, and we had to go to a friend's office to test the game on their high-res displays to see if there were any bugs with the game at >1080p!