---
title: Zach Holman
summary: Web developer (GitHub)
categories:
- developer
- mac
- writer
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm [Zach Holman](http://zachholman.com/ "Zach's website."). I'm a web developer and product person who can sometimes be found living in San Francisco.

I've worked at [GitHub][] for the last four years, helping with everything from github.com to [GitHub Enterprise][github-enterprise] to our culture to our in-office [music server][play].

I like writing. I write about startups and product and emoji on my blog. I write poorly-crafted, crude jokes [on Twitter](https://twitter.com/holman "Zach's Twitter account.").

I like speaking. I've given [a bunch of talks](http://zachholman.com/talks "Zach's list of talks.") over the years, and I enjoy the process of public talks so much that I created [speaking.io](http://speaking.io/ "A site for helping you be a better public speaker."), a site to help you get better at public speaking.

#### What hardware do you use?

I'm currently on a [15" Retina MacBook Pro][macbook-pro]. I've found myself simplifying my setup more and more over time. Previously I had an [iMac][], another display, and a MacBook, but realized that it's just simpler to toss everything on one machine and one screen.

I'm on a black [iPhone 5S][iphone-5s] and a black [Retina iPad Mini][ipad-mini-2]. The iPad I usually only use while traveling (albeit I travel a ton). It's got most of what I need in it now, so I'm not sure I'm going to upgrade for a year or three. The iPhone, on the other hand, always gets upgraded once a year. I get dinged on the extra out-of-contract pricing, but I use it more than any other object that I own, every single day. The incremental improvement ends up making sense to gun for, particularly since I'm in the industry. Just sort of decided it's a vice I'll deal with until the hardware improvements slow dramatically (which may very well happen in coming years).

I like shooting photos. I used to bring my [Nikon D5100][d5100] everywhere, but switched this year to the excellent [Fujifilm X100S][x100s] primarily because a lot of my photos happen casually, on the road, where the smaller size is a big plus.

I like playing with music. For live music, I play on a [Native Instruments Traktor S4][traktor-kontrol-s4] at either our office or at home. I'm still very new to creating music, but for that I use a [Native Instruments Maschine Mikro 2.0][maschine-mikro]. I use a pair of white [Pioneer HDJ-2000s][hdj-2000] for headphones.

It's possibly strange to include this as hardware, but the last few years I've flown 100k-200k miles each year, so airplanes are basically another set of hardware for me in some sense. I tend to fly [Delta](https://www.delta.com/ "The Delta website.") and stay at [SPG](http://spg.com/ "The Starwood Hotel website.") hotels, in large part because I think both of them don't have completely maddening UI in their product (be it technical or customer service or the service itself). Also yes I realize I'm a goddamn nerd for putting this in here but I've made my peace with it.

#### And what software?

I run [OS X Mavericks][mac-os-x]

I tend to build things with [Ruby][], and I'm pretty in love with that language even after all these years. If it's on the web, I'm usually using [Rails][rails] to build it, with the exception of some smaller apps where I'll still drop down to [Sinatra][] from time to time.

My development environment is managed by [Boxen][], [Homebrew][], and [my dotfiles](https://github.com/holman/dotfiles "Zach's dotfiles on GitHub."). I'm feeling good about all of that, which wasn't always the case if you were a Ruby developer five years ago.

I write code in [Atom][], the text editor we've been working on for six years at GitHub. It's based on [Chromium][], so to customize it you can inspect it just like any other web element.

For photos, I use [Aperture][] to manage things locally, and [Exposure][] to share them with people. (You can [take a peek](http://photos.zachholman.com/ "Zach's photos.") at my own photos, too. Stalker.)

For music, I use [Traktor][traktor-pro] and [Maschine][]. For regular daily listening, I use [iTunes][]. I'm wary of cloud-based music offerings ever since [iTunes Match][itunes-match] inserted a country song in the middle of Dre's *2001*. Besides, I have really odd bootlegs of jazz artists from the 50's that I'd never be able to listen to online.

#### What would be your dream setup?

I really wish I could go iPad-only. Unfortunately, as a programmer, I'm not super confident that that would ever be an option. This might be a reason why I should grow up to be a board member who only uses their computer for email and [PowerPoint][] and [Excel][] spreadsheets. Then I'd be golden.

In the real world though, man, we're actually getting close. I have the 15" MacBook Pro, but only because that was the only Retina screen when it came out. I think ideally I'd like to drop down to a 13" Retina Air (preferably even thinner and with a smaller bezel), with battery life of a billion hours.

Seriously, my main goal in everything in life is battery life. I bumped up to the iPhone 5S, which has a faster processor, fully 64 bit architecture, and fully like half of the battery life of the 5. Man, I don't give a fuck about speed anymore. I haven't cared about speed in years. We're getting held back by battery tech at this point.