---
title: Karolina Szczur
summary: Designer, developer, photographer (&amp;yet)
categories:
- designer
- developer
- mac
- photographer
- web
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

Hello! I'm Karolina Szczur and I'm a designer, developer, photographer and wannabe writer working with my friends at [&amp;yet](https://andyet.com/ "The &amp;yet site.").

You can find me sharing and chatting on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/fox "Karolina's Twitter account."), speaking at [conferences](http://lanyrd.com/profile/fox/ "Karolina's Lanyrd profile.") and occasionally making silly faces on [Meatspace][].

If I'm not working in front of my laptop with bad posture and poor eyesight, I'm running around shooting pictures and hanging out with people that are dear to me.

#### What hardware do you use?

Last year I switched to a 15" [MacBook Pro][macbook-pro] Retina with 700GB SSD, 16 gigs of RAM and 2.8 GHz i7 processor. This machine is a beast. Since I travel a lot I don't really have a fancy office, but as a part of my home setup I do use a [Macally Bamboo Stand][bamboo-cooling-stand] to prevent overheating and so I can alter wrist position from time to time. I also have a delightful, very comfortable bag(pack) from [Hard Graft](http://www.hardgraft.com/ "The Hard Graft website.") - might be one of the best accessory buys of my life so far.

When I'm on the go I defer to my 64GB [iPhone 5][iphone-5] and latest generation [iPad Mini Retina][ipad-mini-2]. Both in protective cases, from Hard Graft and local makers [Cinnamon Cocoon](https://www.etsy.com/shop/cinnamoncocoon "The Cinnamon Cocoon Etsy shop.").

Music is an essential part of my life so I've spent a significant amount of time to find just perfect headphones - [Bowers & Wilkins P5][p5.2].

For photography I shoot with a full frame [Canon EOS 6D][eos-6d] with either a [17-40mm f/4L][ef-17-40mm-f4l-usm] or a [50mm/1.4][ef-50mm-f1.4-usm] lens. I do own two film cameras as well, a [Polaroid Supercolor 635][supercolor-635cl] and an old [Zenit 122][zenit-122]. Unfortunately analogue photography is quite time consuming and it got way too costly so I don't do it as often as I used to. I carry my gear in a Hard Graft bag (see a pattern here?).

#### And what software?

I've been running [OS X Yosemite][mac-os-x] since the first beta was available. My life wouldn't be the same without a couple of tiny utility applications like [Alfred][], [Caffeine][], [f.lux][] and [Bartender][]. [Dropbox][] and [Google Drive][google-drive] are my backups. I share pictures and files through the blazingly fast [Cloudup][]. Two other apps worth mentioning are [Sunrise][] as a native calendar alternative and [1Password][].

Design-wise I have been a [Photoshop][] user since version 4, but currently I find myself using primarily [Sketch][]. I share and get feedback on my work through [LayerVault][]. Photoshop and [Lightroom][] remain in my tool belt for photo editing along with beautiful [VSCO film][vsco-film] filters. I manage fonts in [Fonts][fonts].

I write code in [Sublime Text 3][sublime-text] (with the super handy [GitGutter][] extension that tracks your changes in [Git][]) and push it to [GitHub][]. My terminal of choice is [iTerm 2][iterm2] with the [Fish][] shell and [tmux][] for terminal multiplication (say no to ugly tabs!).

For messaging I use a combination of [iMessage][], [Twitter][] and [Google Talk][google-talk] (in the [Flamingo][] app). My cross-device Twitter client of choice was always [Tweetbot][tweetbot-ios]. Team communication happens on our baby product - And Bang. For video chat I stick to another product of ours; [WebRTC][]-based [Talky][].

When it comes to reading: [Reeder][], [Instapaper][], and since [Readmill][] unfortunately died, [iBooks][ibooks-ios] are my jam.

I write in [IA Writer][ia-writer], its lesser known but still awesome competitor [Byword][], or directly on [Medium][]. [Simplenote][] works perfectly for short notes. I really dig [Markdown][] too.

[Rdio][] and [SoundCloud][] are feeding me music all day long. I listen to podcasts through [Instacast][instacast-ios] on iOS.

#### What would be your dream setup?

While I love the screen real estate, power, and speed that the 15" MacBook gives, it can be quite cumbersome to travel with, especially if you pair it with a DSLR. I'd like to have something more lightweight - a 13" [MacBook Air][macbook-air] Retina would be perfect. I'd pair it with one of these [Ona bags](http://www.onabags.com/ "The Ona website.") - they are just gorgeous.

For a home office I'd definitely like to invest in Herman Miller's [Aeron][] chair ([Eames Lounge chair][eames-lounge-chair] is another thing I dream about), a wooden desk and a high quality display. I'm still on the lookout for a good sound system - Sonos would be my choice, probably along with a [Technics SL-1200 MK2][sl-1200] turntable.

One day I want to have a real photo studio of my own. I also wouldn't mind a teleporter.