---
title: Jennifer Wong
summary: Web developer (HotPads)
categories:
- developer
- mac
- web
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm [Jennifer Wong!](http://mochimachine.org/ "Jennifer's website.") Or Jennifer Erin Wong or jennz0r to differentiate me from the numerous others in the world. I'm a self-taught front-end developer, thanks to the help of [Girl Develop It SF](http://www.meetup.com/Girl-Develop-It-San-Francisco/ "A meetup for girls to learn how to code."). I currently work as a web developer for [HotPads][], a [Zillow][] company. Prior to that, I dabbled in customer support to get my foot in the door of the tech industry. And before THAT, I worked as a structural engineer at Front where my first project was [Yas Marina](http://www.yasmarina.ae "The website for a marina and yacht club in Abu Dhabi.").

I'm a voting member at [Double Union](https://www.doubleunion.org/ "The SF hacker space for women's website."), where I spend time working with awesome feminist ladies on awesome projects. I've written for [Model View Culture](http://modelviewculture.com/ "The MVC magazine site.") and I'll be speaking (for the first time!) at [Northeast PHP](http://www.northeastphp.org/ "The website for the PHP conference.") this year. I'm a conflicted technologist and Bay Area native.

#### What hardware do you use?

It was time for me to retire my early 2008 [MacBook][], so I recently purchased a 13" [MacBook Pro][macbook-pro] with Retina display. I also love having dual monitors, and for that I have a 23.6" [Asus VS247H-P HD LCD monitor][vs247h-p]. I discovered that although HD, it ain't got nothing on the Retina! 

As for peripherals, I have an [mStand][] and Apple wireless [keyboard][] for when I want to use dual monitors. I'm super mouse dependent, so I have an array of wired and wireless Logitech mice and several defunct Apple mice. If I'm on a Windows or Linux machine (or my [PS3][]), I use an [Evoluent MouseFriendly keyboard][mouse-friendly-keyboard].

I've only owned a smart phone for about three years - I only purchased a [Galaxy S II][galaxy-s-ii] to take advantage of a company's smartphone reimbursement policy. I now have a [Galaxy S III][galaxy-s-iii], which is pretty much the only hardware I use to test mobile. 

For Christmas, my intergalactic superforce megazord brother gifted me a [Kindle Paperwhite][kindle-paperwhite], which I initially shunned, but now always have with me unless I'm biking. I still love the feel of and purchase books though. 

#### And what software?

When I'm coding at home, I use and love [Sublime Text][sublime-text]. For debugging my code, I find [Chrome DevTools][chrome-devtools] indispensable - gotta love that emulator feature! I run [git][] directly in [Terminal][], so I can learn its intricacies better and I have a bunch of my personal projects committed to my [GitHub account](https://github.com/jennz0r "Jennifer's GitHub account.").

I dabble in visual design and have some experience creating design mock ups in [Photoshop][]. I also recently created my first print design for my best friend's wedding program and menus in [Illustrator][]. I've also used [Gimp][], but to be frank, nothing compares to the power of Adobe's products.

For creating quick notes and bookmarking articles to read for later, I use [Evernote][]. It's one of the few apps I consistently use on my phone. For online documents of greater length, like articles, applications, and presentations drafts, I use [Google Drive][google-drive]. And for those same things offline, I use [OpenOffice][].

My optometrist prescribed me my first pair of (reading!) glasses (NOOoo!) because I stare at a screen all day, so I also use a bunch of weird apps to help retain my far-sighted vision. [20 Cubed][20-cubed] shows a pop up every 20 minutes to remind you to look at something 20 meters away for 20 seconds, and [f.lux][] changes the color of monitors based on the time of day.

The last year or so, I've become incredibly lazy about finding new music for myself. So when I want to find new singles or put my head down to code and have a place to listen to music, I use my friend's site, Tuplet. I think that my new music obsession might've died with my youth - sad but true! I did just alphabetize all my CDs though. YES, you read correctly. CDs.

#### What would be your dream setup?

My dream setup would be a zillion [Thunderbolt displays][thunderbolt-display]! Is there some sort of OSX and Ubuntu hybrid? Because if not, then that would also be on my list of dreams. I'm definitely going to have to upgrade my phone soon, but I'm so new to mobile devices, I have no idea what I want. Other than that, I really love everything I'm using at the moment - is that cheesy to say? And then if we could just make everything cost 10 times less... that would be perfect. :)