---
title: Hope Larson
summary: Cartoonist, writer, director
categories:
- cartoonist
- director
- film
- mac
- writer
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm a cartoonist, writer and director. I've have six published graphic novels under my belt, including an adaptation of Madeleine L'Engle's *A Wrinkle in Time*. My next comics work, in collaboration with illustrator Rebecca Mock, is a two-part comic series in the vein of *Kidnapped* and *Treasure Island*. The first book should be out in 2015 through Farrar, Straus & Giroux.

I've also written and directed a short film called *Bitter Orange* that stars Brie Larson, Brendan Hines and James Urbaniak, and a music video for Dan the Automator and Mary Elizabeth Winstead's band, Got A Girl. You can see *Bitter Orange* on [my website](http://hopelarson.com/ "Hope's website."), and the music video will hopefully be online soon. I'm hard at work on a couple more projects in this vein, but I can't talk about them yet.

#### What hardware do you use?

For drawing and inking comics I keep it old-school with a twist. I draw roughs of my comic pages on printer paper, scan them into my gigantic [27" iMac][imac], blow them up, and then print them off as bluelines onto smooth 11" x 14" Bristol board using my large-format HP Officejet printer. I then tighten up my rough sketch with orange [Prismacolor Col-Erase pencils][col-erase] and ink them with [Pelikan Tusche A drawing ink][drawing-ink-a] and a [Rapaël Kolinsky 8404 sable watercolor brush][kolinsky-8404], size 2 or 3. I scan my pages back in on an [Epson 11000XL scanner][expression-11000xl].

I draw on a drafting table and do graphics work at a standing desk.

For writing, my hardware is a [13" MacBook Pro][macbook-pro] from 2010. I sprung for a solid-state model after my previous laptop was stolen, and this one still runs like a new machine! I also use a 5" x 8.25" ruled Moleskine notebook and whatever pen is lying around, preferably a [Pilot Precise V7][precise-v7] in an interesting color.

#### And what software?

For comics I use [Adobe Photoshop][photoshop] to prep art for print, [Adobe Illustrator][illustrator] to letter and [Adobe InDesign][indesign] to put everything together.

For comics scripts and screenplays I use [Final Draft][final-draft]. I created a custom template for my comics scripts; officially there's no set format for these, but publishers tend not to like it if you submit comics scripts that look like screenplays (or are screenplays).

#### What would be your dream setup?

For the most part I have my dream setup already. I spent ten years working out my tools and setup, and very little of what I do is dependent on technology or gear. However, I just moved to a new neighborhood and I'm still searching for my new writing coffee shop yet. The ideal is a place that makes a great "dainty" (heavy on the milk) iced latte and keeps a basket of slightly underripe bananas on the counter.