---
title: Emily Morse
summary: Sexologist, podcaster
categories:
- doctor
- mac
- podcaster
- sex
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm Dr. Emily Morse, sexologist and host of the [Sex With Emily](https://itunes.apple.com/us/podcast/sex-with-emily-whole-show/id82456189 "Emily's podcast on iTunes.") podcast and radio show. I launched it in 2006 in my living room by interviewing people about their sex lives and relationships. Soon after, I was asked to do my radio show live on CBS Radio in San Francisco and on Sirius/XM.

I co-authored the book [Hot Sex: Over 200 Things You Can Try Tonight](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1616280735/ "Emily's sex book.") and created 3 iPhone apps: [Kegel Camp][kegel-camp-ios], [Emily's Sex-Drive][emilys-sex-drive-ios] and [101 Sex Tips from Sex With Emily][101-sex-tips-ios]. I'm also a weekly guest co-host on the nationally syndicated [Loveline](http://www.lovelineshow.com/ "A call-in show about relationships and sex.") radio show with Dr. Drew Pinsky and Mike Catherwood.

#### What hardware do you use?

I've been a Mac person for a long time. I just got the 13.3-inch [MacBook Air][macbook-air]. I wanted to get the 11 inch because I take my laptop everywhere but the screen was just too small. I have an [iPad][ipad-3] from 2012, but I don't use it often because I write so much. I haven't been able to make the switch - I even tried out a few keyboards for the iPad, but I haven't found any that worked for me.

I have the [iPhone 5s][iphone-5s] and I'm essentially glued to my phone. I have chargers in every room of my home, my office, and my car so I never have to run out of battery. I'm thinking of buying the Mophie, but it just seems like another thing to charge, though I'm sure it would make life easier.

I record my radio show in the Loveline radio studios. I just got an Apogee Microphone for recording podcasts from my iPhone or laptop.

#### And what software?

Everything in my life is run through email. We use [Google Docs][google-docs] and [Google Calendar][google-calendar] in the office.  

We're always on social media, and use [Hootsuite][] to manage [Facebook][] and [Twitter][]. For managing projects in the office we use [Basecamp][], after searching for the "perfect" project management software which I'm convinced doesn't exist.

My browser is [Google Chrome][chrome], and we use [Dropbox][] and [Libsyn][] for hosting podcasts. I use [Adobe Audition][audition] for editing. 

#### What would be your dream setup?

A dream setup would be to have a recording studio attached to my office, with an engineer there full-time so I can just run in and do my show anytime I want.

It always seems like I'm running out of space for photos and videos on my phone and laptop, so would it would be ideal to have infinite memory on everything I own.