---
title: Judd Vinet
summary: Software engineer (Arch Linux), CTO (Bet Smart Media)
categories:
- developer
- linux
- software
- suit
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm [Judd Vinet](http://www.zeroflux.org "Judd's website."). I'm a software engineer who likes open source software and startups. I tend to try and combine the two whenever I can.

On the Internet, I'm best known as the creator of the [Arch Linux][arch-linux] distribution, a little project I started back in 2001 when I was in university. Thirteen years later, Arch has grown into one of the more popular distributions on the planet and has a respectable number of offshoots and derivatives under it, as well as high-quality documentation for experts and newcomers alike. In 2007, I stepped down from my lead role at Arch due to time constraints. Now I'm just a cheerleader.

In my dayjob, I'm the CTO of a little startup called Bet Smart Media. We build software for the sports gaming industry, and it has some interesting challenges that tend to keep us quite busy. I also get to watch sports while I work, which is a nice perk!

When I'm not in front of a keyboard, I enjoy outdoor pursuits, music, and a few sports. You'll either find me underwater (swimming), on two wheels (cycling), strumming (guitar), or cheering at a baseball stadium (or pub) somewhere.

#### What hardware do you use?

Gone are the days when I had 15 desktop computers in my bedroom as build clusters for Arch Linux. Today I'm more of a minimalist, prioritizing mobility over screen size or computing power.

I presently carry a 2012 [Macbook Air][macbook-air] 11" around with me wherever I go. I maxed out the RAM (8GB) and put an SSD in it, and it's just a beautiful little machine. I'm not a big fan of [OS X][mac-os-x] though, so it runs Arch.

I'm almost always listening to music if I'm moving about or working, so I tend to keep some good-quality headphones in my midst. For over-ear style, I use [Sennheiser Momentum cans][momentum], and when I want IEMs, I use a pair of [Etymotic HF5 buds][hf5] with a [Fiio E11][e11] portable headphone amplifier.

For phones, I typically buy the latest Nexus product from Google each year. I'm currently on a [Nexus 5][nexus-5], which has been a great little device. I still have a [Motorola Xoom][xoom] kicking around at home, but it's mostly just a [Netflix][] machine for me these days.

At work, I plug my Air into a couple external monitors. One is an Asus 27" and the other is a cool little 15" USB-powered LCD monitor, an [AOC e1649Fwu][e1649fwu]. It doesn't require any external power beyond the USB connection, and it's quite portable, fitting into laptop bags with ease.

I don't use the mouse/trackpad a lot when I'm working, but if I do need to move a pointer around, I'll use a [Logitech Anywhere MX][anywhere-mouse-mx] if I'm on a desktop surface. If I'm on the road or working off my lap, then the trackpad suffices.

I also keep an older [Macbook Pro][macbook-pro] on my desk that does run OS X. This computer mostly serves as a build machine for [iOS][] apps.

#### And what software?

First and foremost is Arch Linux. On top of that, I use the [i3 tiling window manager][i3], which I've customized with a couple patches and a number of homegrown utilities that I use to keep myself productive. Examples include a custom notification system, dynamic per-workspace LCD backlighting, and a few other sundry scripts that integrate with i3 over its IPC channel.

On top of i3, I spend almost all of my time in terminals and web browsers. I run my terminals inside a [tmux][] session, which lets me do fun things like detach from running sessions, broadcast keystrokes to multiple terminals at once (useful when you're doing sysadmin chores on a cluster), and not losing your work if your terminal emulator crashes on you.

In half of my multitudinous terminal sessions, you will find [Vim][] instances. Vim has been my editor of choice since I left the womb, and because of the entrenched muscle memory of typing things like ":wq", I can barely function in other editors.

I typically use two web browsers in tandem. Because I'm fairly cognizant of web security, I run one "clean" browser ([Firefox][]) and one "dirty" browser ([Chrome][]). The browser I use depends on the website I'm visiting.

For example, since a [Facebook][] widget exists on basically every site on our green Earth, Facebook can easily see what sites you visit on any given day. So I will only login to Facebook on my dirty browser through an Incognito window. If I'm inspecting the DOM of a web application or trawling through code on [GitHub][], then I'll use my clean browser, which has been more fine-tuned to my tastes with customized configuration and useful browser extensions.

I rely heavily on keyboard shortcuts for my favourite applications. In fact, most of the time I have the mouse/trackpad disabled. I can run my window manager, editor, and web browser (mostly) without an active pointing device. This eases any RSI strain on my wrist/elbow and probably helps keep my mind sharp as I memorize hundreds of key combinations. Probably.

In addition to these major parts of my working environment, I lean on a number of tools, programming languages, message queues, and database systems to build my software. To name a few:

- Tools: [rsync][], [ssh][], [git][], [TrueCrypt][], [Lsyncd][], [ranger][], [tinc][]
- Languages: [bash][], [Python][], [JavaScript][] ([nodejs][node.js]), [Lua][], [Go][], [C][], [PHP][]
- MQ and DB: [Redis][], [RabbitMQ][], [ZeroMQ][], [MySQL][], [Postgres][postgresql], [SQLite][]

#### What would be your dream setup?

To be honest, I'm already pretty close to it. I've spent a lot of hours refining my workflow, and I'm fairly happy with things on the software side.

As for hardware, I love the form factor of the 11" Macbook Air, and I will probably buy a new one this year, when they refresh the lineup. It could stand to get an upgrade to a higher-resolution screen. As well, Apple left quite a big bezel around the screen. If they minimized the bezel, I think they could fit a 12" screen in the same form factor.

I hope wireless charging advances to ubiquity in the next few years. Cords suck.

Oh, and more battery life in everything, please.