---
title: George Nachman
summary: Software developer (Google Search App, iTerm2)
categories:
- developer
- mac
- software
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

My name is [George Nachman](https://twitter.com/gnachman "George's Twitter account."). I'm a software engineer. I work at Google on the [Google Search App for iOS][google-search-ios], and my 20% project is [iTerm2][]. I'm also into woodworking and my goal is to build all my [home furniture](https://www.dropbox.com/sc/3pddlsoohndhe6b/AADVdOuWiFtcuLkOUr0Zi8k6a "George's photos of his home-made furniture.") from scratch. I love making stuff, whether physical or virtual, and always have. Helping others to be more productive is how I accumulate karma.

#### What hardware do you use?

My setup at work is pretty cool: I sit in a [zero-gravity recliner][perfect-chair], which is the most comfortable chair I've ever sat in. My monitor is a [Dell 4K display][ultrasharp-up2414q]. It's on a pole-mounted monitor arm so I can position it exactly where I need it when lying almost horizontally. I use an Apple bluetooth keyboard and Magic Trackpad, which is the greatest thing since oxygen. I use a Mac Pro, and have a 15" Macbook Pro for when I'm on the go.

At home, I use a 13" [Macbook Pro][macbook-pro]. I used to use a 15" but I got tired of elbowing strangers on airplanes.

#### And what software?

I switched over to the Apple universe in 2007, having previously used Windows and Linux. I still use Linux for server-side stuff, but I spend 90% of my time doing client development, which suits my personality (read: short attention span) much better. Not using Windows has been a blessing, because I'm no longer competent to fix broken Windows computers.

For coding, I use [vim][] when possible and [XCode][] when necessary. Most desktop GUIs do more harm than good, and I'd rather hang out in a TTY all day. Since I'm old-school, my shell is still [tcsh][]. I'd like to use [bash][] but tcsh's shortcuts are in the ganglia of my fingers. I got a shell account at [my local ISP](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digex "The Wikipedia entry for Digex.") when I was in high school and learned Unix by typing random commands until something worked. I strongly believe that a person without access to a *nix shell at all times is not living up to his or her full human potential.

That notwithstanding, I think [Alfred][] is a darn fine program. I use [Photoshop][] and [Pixelmator][] for graphics stuff. On my iPhone, I'm a big fan of [Downcast][downcast-ios] for listening to podcasts, and [Reeder][reeder-ios] for RSS feeds (backed by [Feedbin][], which is quite awesome). I'm still addicted to [Flappy Bird][flappy-bird-ios], and my high score is 81, which I'm both proud and ashamed of.

#### What would be your dream setup?

I'm pretty sure I have it already. I do wish there were more options for ergonomic keyboards with built-in trackpads, though. It would be really cool to get waterproof equipment and work from a hot tub, but that's probably impractical somehow.