---
title: Rob Beschizza
summary: Managing editor (Boing Boing), storyteller, artificer
categories:
- developer
- editor
- game
- mac
- web
- writer
credits:
  name: Heather Beschizza
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm Rob Beschizza, a writer, artist and game developer. I love ambiguous and liminal things. My heart's always at home exploring strange places or searching for what's hidden in plain sight. I'm the managing editor of [Boing Boing](http://boingboing.net "The Boing Boing website."), where I can tell stories about [secret histories](http://boingboing.net/2011/10/11/mixtape-of-the-lost-decade.html "Rob's story about secret histories.") and [mystic technology](http://boingboing.net/2012/04/02/antikythera.html "Rob's story about the Antikythera mechanism."). I made [TinyHack][], a nasty little roguelike in 9x9 pixels.

#### What hardware do you use?

A [Parker 51][51] that was my grandfather's. Cheap unlined notebooks. 2B graphite sticks, more fun than pencils.

Together, my [iPad Mini][ipad-mini] and [Logitech keyboard cover][ultrathin-keyboard-cover-mini] form a quasi-laptop that's great for writing. I've had all sorts of terrible tiny computers - the [Jornada 720][jornada-720], the [NEC MobilePro][mobilepro-900], the [Fujitsu U810][u810], the Sony Vaio P - and the iPad's the first that isn't completely daft.

For design work and painting, I have a [27" iMac][imac] with an [Intuos 4][intuos] graphics tablet. An [iPhone 5S][iphone-5s] sits in my pocket, but for the longest time I held out with a [Moto F3][motofone-f3], a $15 e-ink mobile slabphone adored by tragic minimalists. I have a [TRS-80 Model 100][trs-80-model-100], too, but you just can't get anything done with something like that. It's just there, haunting a shelf! 

My Shuttle Cube PC - a tool for playing games - lurks in a corner.

For photos, I have a [Lumix GM1][lumix-dmc-gm1], a tiny interchangeable-lens camera no larger than the point-and-shoot it replaced. And yet the images are wonderful. I also have a [Blackmagic Cinema Camera][cinema-camera], an unwieldy box designed to produce more filmlike results than a similarly-priced DSLR. I've barely scratched the surface of what it can do, and look forward to continuing to imagine all the wonderful things I'll never get around to filming. I might trade it in for the [Digital Bolex][d16-cinema-camera], similar but more ergonomic.

#### And what software?

Games! Games as far as the eye can see.

I'm a sucker for the latest [writing][ia-writer] and painting apps, but never seem to stick with any given one for long. [Textwrangler][] on the desktop. [Photoshop][]. I have an expired [Corel Painter][painter] trial, and a vague determination to buy a full license. I make music in [Impulse][impulse-tracker]/[Schism Tracker][schism-tracker] and [Reason][].

Game development used to involve [Flash][]; now [JavaScript][]. Work means [PHP][]. To me, programming feels like trying to snake drains with licorice straws. I was never smart enough to understand the discipline, and only became marginally competent through dumb persistence - and [Stack Exchange][stack-exchange].

I've just about had it up to here with [Gmail][].

#### What would be your dream setup?

My dream setup would be a proper laptop of similar dimensions to an iPad Mini, an item of singular beauty and simplicity that I'd become as attached to as a sorcerer to a demon familiar. It would even brew tea.

I look forward to the cochlea-radio, retina-projected future we've all been waiting for, but it seems silly to imagine how work would work when all that finally comes to be. All I really want is a campfire, a well-lubricated audience, and twenty minutes. That's all you need to tell a story.