---
title: Chris Darden
summary: Board game designer (Dungeon Roll)
categories:
- game
- windows
credits:
  name: Hazel Darden
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

Hello, I'm Chris Darden. I am a Senior Data Analyst for a nonprofit healthcare organization in St. Louis, MO, a [board game][dungeon-roll] designer, and co-organizer of [Geekway](http://geekway2west.com/ "The Geekway site.") (an annual board game convention here in town). In the future, I'll eventually have a website and finally publish something to [Medium](https://medium.com/@cbdarden/ "Chris' Medium site."). In the meantime, you can see what snarky comments I have about [lots and lots of board games](http://boardgamegeek.com/collection/user/cbdarden?rated=1&subtype=boardgame&ff=1 "Chris' posts on BoardGameGeek.").
 
#### What hardware do you use?

I have an unremarkable system at work that runs [Windows 7][windows-7]. The only saving grace is the extra memory they let me have and the dual monitors that make my job a lot easier. At home for leisure and game design I'm typically on a cheap Acer [Aspire V5-571-6893][aspire-v5-571-6893] laptop that's running [Windows 8][windows-8] (which I've done my best to make it look like Windows 7) or an [iPad 3][ipad-3]. In addition, I'm basically naked without my [iPhone 4S][iphone-4s], it's with me at all times.
 
I use a [Canon PowerShot S110][powershot-s110], which takes amazing pictures and doesn't require a lot of fuss to get right and has built in wi-fi so I can share picture with my iPhone on the go.
 
On the non-technical side I always have a black Sharpie attached to my keys and a [Staedtler Black Permanent Lumocolor Medium tipped marker][lumocolor] that my friend [Ryan](http://olriverstudios.com/Welcome.html "Ryan's website.") convinced me I should always carry with me. And he's right, it's useful for marking up prototypes, signing boxes at the game store, drawing, and general use. I also have a thumb drive attached to my keys that gets used occasionally, but less and less as of late.
 
For prototyping games at home I have a 6x3 table I picked up at Goodwill for $20 with a [Chessex double-sided Megamat][megamat] on it and a 6x3 piece of plexi on top of that. I can easily draw out boards, make notes, and my wife uses it to pattern out things for sewing. Soon it will be replaced by a [7' Minimalist Gaming Table][the-minimalist] from Geek Chic, and I am super excited about that.
 
In addition I have tons of old Magic cards, lots of clear and colored sleeves, cubes, dice, and pawns to flesh out ideas quickly.

#### And what software?

At work: it's the standard [Microsoft Office][office] apps that I'm mainly in. Nothing special here.
 
On the home PC: [Pandora][] is always going, I work best with music or some noise in the background. Most all of my prototyping takes place in [Microsoft Excel][excel]. I'm quick with it and I have templates made for various card orientations. It produces ugly but quick cards, but I usually spice them up with icons from [The Noun Project][the-noun-project] or [Game-icons][]. A cheap color printer and plenty of regular and sticker paper are usually all I need to get something going.
 
On my iPhone, I'm always using the native Notes app to capture thoughts and game mechanic ideas. I've been using [One Second Everyday][1-second-everyday-ios] since the beginning of the year to capture one second of video every single day. The last time I compiled it is [here](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3mJJXA0Hqm0 "A video by Chris using the 1 Second Everyday app."). I'm also active on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/cbdarden "Chris' Twitter account.") and love to check [Timehop][timehop-ios] every day.
 
On the iPad I use it to write notes, check email, and play games. I use [Adobe Ideas][adobe-ideas-ios] to sketch out a quick idea and [CardWarden][cardwarden-ios] to deal out sample hands of games I create. CardWarden really is amazing, every budding game designer should be using it. I would also be completely lost without [Dropbox][], I use it every single day.

#### What would be your dream setup?

My dream setup would be a old red train caboose set up on a short section of rails in my backyard near the tree line. A short walk from the house, but far enough away that you would think twice about interrupting me. Inside would be a fast PC with dual monitors, printer, my prototyping supplies, and clear table space to assemble prototypes. I'd also want a small selection of games, a table for four, a small fridge, and a place to take a nap.