---
title: Terry Colon
summary: Illustrator, cartoonist
categories:
- cartoonist
- illustrator
- mac
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I am an illustrator, sometime cartoonist, sometime humorist, or some combination of the three. Maybe an illustrationist? What I do is illustrations, cartoons and the occasional humor bit. Very convenient the way who I am and what I do sync up like that.

When not gainfully employed I play around with [terrycolon.com](http://terrycolon.com/ "Terry's website.") which I do mainly for my own amusement and to keep the brain gears from rusting in my down time. Anyway, they say practice makes perfect. Though if you practice wrong then I suppose you'll do things perfectly wrong. 

Considering the follow-up questions below, we can pretty much forget about the humorist claim in my bio because there's nothing in hardware or software that helps me with humor. At least, I haven't found a "make funny" function on my computer.

The above who-I-am and what-I-do is my public persona. My private life, on the other hand, I choose to keep to myself. That's why it's called private.

#### What hardware do you use?

I use an old [G4][power-mac-g4] for scanning and a new Mac Whatever-it-is for everything else. I use two computers because, well, I'm cheap. Or thrifty, as my Scottish grandma would have said. When I got the new machine I simply didn't want to buy a new scanner or Photoshop upgrade since what I had worked fine on the creaky G4. 

I can't tell you much about my hardware because I'm blissfully oblivious about it. My brother, who's the propellerhead in the family, helped me pick it out. All I know is it's one of these new-fangled Macs with an operating system named after a big cat of some sort. (Puma, ocelot, cerval? I dunno.) Beyond that, as far as I can tell computer coding is some kind of key-stroked, modern spell casting. Nerd voodoo.

#### And what software?

Here's my working process:

1. Sketches with pencil and marker on tracing paper.
2. Finished drawings in marker on tracing paper.
3. Line art scanned into [Adobe Photoshop][photoshop] at 300dpi. Scans cleaned up where needed.
4. Transfer file between computers with Verbatim memory stick sneakernet. 
5. Bitmap art imported into [Adobe Illustrator][illustrator] and converted to vector art.
6. Vector images assembled, edited and colored in Illustrator.

It's easy as one-two-three, even though it's actually six steps in case you didn't pay close attention. Yeah, the step 4 sneakernet is cheesy. Did anything above make you think I'd know how to network my computers?

I build terrycolon.com with [BBEdit][]. Not that I know it's better than anything else, but that's what they used for [Suck.com](http://suck.com/ "The Suck website.") and so I just went with it. I upload to the web with [Filezilla][] because I got it free. Like I said, thrifty.

#### What would be your dream setup?

I don't dream of setups. Though I sometimes dream I'm at the computer doing illustrations. Which is really annoying because I never save the work and don't get paid for it.