---
title: junkboy
summary: Illustrator, graphics designer (Mojang)
categories:
- artist
- designer
- game
- mac
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm Markus, better known under my screen name [junkboy](http://jnkboy.tumblr.com/ "Markus' Tumblr site."). I'm an illustrator and graphic designer living in Stockholm, Sweden. If you were to summarize my career so far, it would be as art director for [Mojang](https://mojang.com/ "The Mojang site."), making [pixel graphic demakes](http://kotaku.com/5601850/22-high+caliber-demakes-of-modern-favorites/ "A post on Markus' game demakes.") and drawing [mayors piledriving sharks](http://jnkboy.deviantart.com/art/Haggar-piledriving-a-shark-202701148 "Markus' drawing of Haggar piledriving a shark."). In reverse chronological order.

#### What hardware do you use?

You will no doubt be shocked to hear that I have three setups of Apple computers and Wacom tablets. At the office I use a [27" iMac i7][imac], with a bunch of RAM and an [Intuos 4 XL][intuos] hooked up to it. At home I have an older 21.5" iMac i3 with an even older tablet, the Intuos 3 A4. I used to have a 2 screen setup back in the PC days, but seriously, who was I kidding? I'm a guy who draws shit in Photoshop, I don't monitor rocket trajectories.

My portable workstation - and by portable I mean I sometimes bring it with me on a trip but end up only using my cellphone anyway - is the [15" MacBook Pro Retina][macbook-pro] and an Intuos 5 M tablet. I swear I wasn't always like this, I used to be a hardcore PC user for many years, but that damn iPhone became some sort of gateway drug for me.

I had a [Wacom Cintiq 24 HD][cintiq] for a while, but after a year of only using it as a glorified paperweight, I sold it and bought a [Scared Stiff](http://www.ipdb.org/machine.cgi?id=3915 "The Scared Stiff pinball machine.") pinball game instead. I love Apple's [Magic Mouse][magic-mouse], file browsing has become a borderline religious experience ever since I discovered it. I wear a [Pebble][] smartwatch that scares the crap out of me whenever someone calls or texts. I have a bunch of [external 500 GB drives][elements-portable] that I store all my Hall & Oates mp3s on. Just in case there's a raid or something.

#### And what software?

Most of the [Creative Suite 6][creative-suite] really, thanks to Adobe's rather affordable subscription service. I use [Photoshop CS6][photoshop] and [Illustrator CS6][illustrator] for the majority of my work, but I will occasionally do stuff in [Flash][], [After Effects][after-effects] and [InDesign][]. I still have no idea what I'm supposed to do with [Bridge][].

Most of my work is 2D, but every now and then I'll dabble in 3D using [Wings 3D][wings-3d], [Blender][] and [Sculptris][]. I have [Parallels Desktop][parallels-desktop] set up on my computers, so I can run [Win7][windows-7] simultaneously with [OSX][mac-os-x] and incorporate some of the Windows-only stuff into my workflow, such as [GraphicsGale][], a fantastic little pixel art animation program. 

#### What would be your dream setup?

A room, at the top of a tower, overlooking a monolithic city made of stone and blood. In the center of the room there is a pedestal upon which a 27" Retina iMac is placed. That's right, the good lords of Apple gave that baby a Retina screen. But this divine gift comes with a price. Someone must constantly maintain and nurture the computer by mindlessly browsing Reddit, otherwise it will self-destruct and cast doom upon the city-dwellers below. Thus, I humbly accept my fate.