---
title: Chris Klimas
summary: Web developer (Twine)
categories:
- developer
- game
- mac
- web
- windows
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

[I](http://chrisklimas.com/ "Chris' website.") work as a web developer, and I'm fascinated by words and interactivity. I created [Twine][], an open-source application that makes creating storytelling games incredibly easy. Right now, I'm working on creating a browser-based version of Twine. I also collaborate with my best friend Joel on graphical games under the name [Twofold Secret](http://twofoldsecret.com/ "The Twofold Secret website."); we most recently released a turn-based strategy game, _[Camp Keepalive][camp-keepalive]_.

#### What hardware do you use?

My main computer is a Dell 15z laptop running [Windows 7][windows-7]. I switched from [OS X][mac-os-x] so I could keep up with PC gaming. I have an external monitor, keyboard, and mouse, but I barely use them -- I'm almost always couch computing. I don't use headphones at all. I used to, but I started to worry about my hearing.

I just traded in an original [iPad][] for an [iPad Air][ipad-air], which I mainly use for web browsing before bed, and I carry around an [iPhone 5C][iphone-5c].

My creative process works so much better when I'm writing or sketching longhand on paper, so I've been carrying around spiral notebooks for a long time. Just recently I added a graph-ruled notebook into the mix as well to draw maps and diagrams. I always use mechanical pencils, but I don't really care what kind I use -- I buy whatever's available at the nearest drug store.

#### And what software?

For programming, I use [gVim][vim] with the Mustang theme. I converted after learning [emacs][] in my college days -- vim just seems more efficient. Mustang is really clever because it de-emphasizes the connective tissue of code, e.g. the ifs and the elses, so the actual important parts stick out. I also have the [NERDTree][the-nerd-tree] and [CtrlP][] plugins installed. Otherwise, I try to keep my config as minimal as possible -- that's the whole point of vim, right?

For writing, I use a WriteRoom clone named [Q10][]. [Gimp][] for graphics and [Audacity][] for audio. Actually, I really love screwing around making sounds with [Bfxr][]; Audacity is just for superbasic editing.

I use [Mercurial][] for source control, and [TortoiseHg][] as a nicer interface on top. Mercurial's verbs are just more logical to me than Git's.

I'm waiting for [Firefox][] to win my heart back from [Chrome][]. Each release gets a little bit closer, but it still feels less responsive than Chrome is, and I'm just more familiar with Chrome's developer tools.

#### What would be your dream setup?

The practical answer would be either a magical version of OS X that could run Windows games without the hassle of VMs, or a magical version of Linux that can sync my phone with [iTunes][]. I miss using a *nix, in short.

More ambitiously, I'd love to replace my paper notebooks with a magical e-ink device. I don't need character recognition or anything like that; I just want something I can write and sketch on and have the result saved digitally. You can do this more or less on a tablet, but it fails the beach test for me on two counts: backlit screens don't do well outdoors, obviously, and I also want something that I don't feel like I have to baby in the great wide world. Paper, on the other hand, is an invisible technology.