---
title: Jen Fong-Adwent
summary: Apps engineer (Mozilla)
categories:
- developer
- mac
- web
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

My name is Jen Fong-Adwent but some people know me as Edna Piranha. I work at [Mozilla](http://mozilla.org/ "The Mozilla group's site.") on the Apps Engineering team, building mobile-friendly open sourced HTML5 apps.

I also created the GIF chat site [Meatspace Chat][meatspace] with help from [Sole](http://twitter.com/supersole "Sole's Twitter account.") and a bunch of [contributors](https://github.com/meatspaces/meatspace-chat/graphs/contributors "A list of contributors to Meatspace Chat.").

I don't blog too often but when I do you can read my [project updates and thoughts](http://ednapiranha.com/ "Jen's website.") or you can follow my [random tweets](http://twitter.com/ednapiranha "Jen's Twitter account.") which are more frequent.

Most of my spare time is spent on hacking on [personal code projects and libraries](http://github.com/ednapiranha "Jen's GitHub account.") - recently I've been working with a lot of [Node.js][], [LevelDB][], [IndexedDB][] and [WebRTC][].

#### What hardware do you use?

For work and personal computer usage, I have two [13" Macbook Airs][macbook-air] that I do everything on. For a while I was using a [Wacom Intuos tablet][intuos] but I've lost the pen so I'll have to get a replacement soon.

For mobile devices, I have an [iPhone 5s][iphone-5s] that I use everyday as my default "everything" phone, but I also have the following:

* A [Samsung Galaxy S3][galaxy-s-iii] that runs [Cyanogenmod][], which I use for testing Firefox installed apps from the [Firefox Marketplace][firefox-marketplace].
* I just ordered a [Nexus 5][nexus-5], which I am going to use as a secondary everyday phone and test my personal collection of projects.
* I also have two developer preview phones from [Geeksphone][peak.2] for testing Firefox OS apps.

For location-based devices, I have a [Garmin Forerunner 210][forerunner-210] that I use for tracking trail running, street running and hiking.

#### And what software?

I do all my local coding on projects using [Sublime Text 2][sublime-text] and all my remote server editing with [Vim][].

For graphics editing, I use [Photoshop][] and [Illustrator][].

For browsers I use [Firefox Nightly][firefox-nightly] and [Chrome Canary][chrome-canary] on desktop, [Firefox Beta][firefox-beta-android] on Android and for lack of any other reasonable options I default to [Safari][safari-ios] on iOS.

For social apps, I primarily use Meatspace Chat, Twitter and [Adium][].

For password management, I use [1Password][] to generate passwords for all the random sites I sign up to.

#### What would be your dream setup?

I would love to have an external monitor like an [Apple Thunderbolt display][thunderbolt-display] at home and a 13" [Macbook Pro][macbook-pro] with Retina display. Actually, having a couple of these simultaneously would be cool.