---
title: Lux Alptraum
summary: Writer, sex educator
categories:
- mac
- sex
- teacher
- writer
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm [Lux Alptraum](http://luxalptraum.com/ "Lux's website."), a writer, sex educator, and consultant who works to help improve the discourse around sexuality. Up until very recently I was the editor, publisher, and CEO of [Fleshbot.com](http://fleshbot.com/ "An adult website (NSFW, obviously)."), the web's foremost blog about sexuality and adult entertainment; when Fleshbot was acquired by SK Intertainment, I decided to use my talents to help other companies find success in the field of sex.

Some of the projects I'm currently working on include [Nerve.com](http://nerve.com/ "The Nerve website.") (a fantastic website about sex and culture), [WoodRocket](http://www.funnyordie.com/topic/wood-rocket "Comedy/porn videos (NSFW).") (a wonderful, free site that combines comedy and porn), [Unbound Box](https://unboundbox.com/ "A curated erotic product service for women.") (a company that curates erotic products for women), and [Minna Life](http://www.minnalife.com/ "A company that makes sex toys.") (the makers of a brilliant line of touch sensitive sex toys). Oh, and of course I'm still writing for Fleshbot -- I certainly couldn't quit that one after all these years.

#### What hardware do you use?

2010 15" [MacBook Pro][macbook-pro], which I am hoping to trade in for a 13" [MacBook Air][macbook-air] some time soon. The [iPad 2][ipad-2]. An [iPhone 5S][iphone-5s] (I am in love with the fingerprint sensor). A handful of external hard drives both for back ups and for storing data. I used to have a 27" [iMac][], but I recently got rid of it in the pursuit of a more stripped down, minimalist existence. I don't really regret the decision -- while the huge monitor was a beautiful site to behold, it really tied me down to one location, which isn't appealing at all.

Oh, and if it counts as hardware, I have a standing desk. It is very likely one of the cheapest ways to get a standing desk, as it's a [wall mounted dropleaf table][bjursta] from IKEA. It only works if you're not planning to put a lot of weight on your desk -- but if your workstation mainly consists of a laptop and a mug of tea, it's perfect.

#### And what software?

Most of my work is just reading and writing, so I spend a lot of time in [Chrome][]. I love [Draft][] for writing, but I've found that not all of the editors I write for are as enthusiastic about the platform as I am. I use [Google Drive][google-drive] for a lot of documents (particularly shared ones), since that's becoming a universal standard. I grudgingly use [Microsoft Word][word] for a lot of editing -- though I'm not a fan of the program, it's a universally accepted format, and sometimes it's easier to just edit in Word than deal with uploading and editing and then downloading, etc. 

For email I use [Postbox][]. I feel contrary saying this, but I *hate* web based mail interfaces. I use [Gmail's][gmail] servers for almost all of my mail accounts, but I loathe checking email through the Gmail website -- having to check my email in a browser tab just seems straight up barbaric. I used [Apple Mail][mail] for a while, but recently made the switch to Postbox and can't see myself going back. Pretty much everything about it is perfect: I love the quick reply feature (that's how I'm writing this *right now*), I love the way it threads conversations, I love the ability to view just message attachments, or just the photos in your inbox. If you haven't tried it, I highly recommend it.

I am also a big fan of the [SimpleNote][]/[Notational Velocity][notational-velocity] combo, which I use to make a lot of notes to myself. Often really, really dumb notes (and occasionally really important ones). 

And if I am on a computer, I am almost definitely on [Adium][]. As with email, chat is something I insist on doing outside of a web browser; and I love Adium's multiplatform support and UI. I tried using [Messages][] instead of Adium and found I only liked it for [iMessage][], so I tend to have it running in the background while I primarily chat with Adium.

#### What would be your dream setup?

I have this fantasy in which I am a minimalist, but real life always proves otherwise. My dream set up would be a MacBook Air hooked up to a 27" monitor on a small, wall mounted standing desk, with absolutely no papers cluttering anything, and no mess anywhere to be seen. I dream of a paperless office -- one day I'll achieve it, right?