---
title: Ellen Chisa
summary: Product manager (Kickstarter)
categories:
- mac
- product
- suit
credits:
  name: Sarah Lovrien
  url: http://www.sarahlovrien.com/
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm [Ellen Chisa](http://www.ellenchisa.com/ "Ellen's website."). Right now, I'm living in Brooklyn, but I'm moving back to Cambridge (the one near Boston, not in England) soon. 

I work for [Kickstarter][] where I'm a Product Manager, and work on the backer experience. I try to make everyone else's job easier.

I'm also a trustee of the [Awesome Foundation](http://www.awesomefoundation.org/ "A foundation that gives away $1000 grants."), where we give away money, no strings attached!

#### What hardware do you use?

I use a [13" Macbook Air][macbook-air]. My main laptop is always 13" - the size just feels right for me. I prefer MacBooks for a ridiculous reason: I prefer the way the keyboard feels. I never use an external monitor because the amount of screen space overwhelms me.

I've never been much of a tablet person. If I'm on a computer, I want to be productive. If I'm not, I want to do something else (go outside!) I have a [Microsoft Surface RT][surface-rt] in the kitchen that I use to pull up recipes while I'm cooking.

Right now I use an [iPhone 5S][iphone-5s]. For a couple years, I worked on [Windows Phone][windows-phone] and carried an [HTC 8X][windows-phone-8x]. After dropping and shattering two within a year, I decided it was time for something else.

I love to fall asleep while reading. I hate either needing to decide when to turn off the lights, or waking up with all the lights on at 2am, so now I use a [Kindle Paperwhite][kindle-paperwhite].

When I'm meeting with someone, I try not to have my technology out. I've experimented with a bunch of notebooks, and lately I've been using an A:LOG, and some Moleskines (squared). I carry [an entire pack of Pilot G2 pens][g2.2] in various colors so I can color code my notes.  When I need a pencil I use [Rainbow pencils][rainbow-pencils], and sharpen them using a [Sharpener Jar][sharpener-jar]. 

I also have a [Fitbit One][one], but I lost it for a few months and haven't gotten back into the swing of it.

#### And what software?

My favorite software is [FuzzyClock][]. My clock only has a few options: "morning, lunch, afternoon, go to bed." It tells the real time of day between 7 and 10pm, and 10pm - 10am. So far, I haven't missed too many meetings. I also use [f.lux][], which helps prevent me from staying up all night.

Most of what I do is on the Internet. [Chrome][] is my primary browser. I also use a Chrome extension called [Web Timer][web-timer].

Webtimer informs me that I spend most of my time online in [Gmail][] - nearly two hours per day. That doesn't surprise me at all. I never understand why email gets such a bad wrap - I love using it for long form communication. My second most used website is [Twitter](http://www.twitter.com/ellenchisa "Ellen's Twitter account."), which is also unsurprising. It's the best way to meet new people, because it removes all the awkward "so what do you do...?" I love already having an idea of someone's work and personality.

For Product Management work, I use [Trello][] to keep track of everything. I also use [Google Docs][google-docs] to a make notes, and [Balsamiq][mockups] to make mockups. Sometimes I'll use [Photoshop][] to modify something more detailed. I use [Sublime Text][sublime-text] if I'm editing code, and [Github for Mac][github-mac] or [Terminal][] to check things in. We use [Campfire][] to keep up with each other during the day (my FuzzyClock says "join the campfire!" from 10-10:10 each morning, because I forget otherwise).

I use Trello to keep myself organized, too. I have one board that has columns for each type of thing I do - web stuff, writing, art. When I need some inspiration I go read through all my ideas to pick something to do.

My writing process uses the most different things. I draft everything in [Day One][day-one] because I like that it feels like a journal - plus then I can read the notes in the [iOS app][day-one-ios] while I'm out. Once I have a draft I'm happy with, I copy paste everything into [Hemingway][] to edit. Then I either move it into my blog, which uses [Wordpress][], or to [Medium][] (or sometimes both). I also use [TinyLetter][] to power the "Subscribe to my Blog" link, but I have yet to send a single issue. Someday.

A few of my favorite things are: [Pinterest][] for procrastinating, [Spotify][] for listening to music, [Pocket][] for saving articles that I'll probably never read, [Goodreads][] for documenting books that I do read, and [Product Hunt](http://www.producthunt.com/ "A product discovery site.") for doing research on cool new stuff. I still miss [Google Reader][google-reader].

#### What would be your dream setup?

This will sound funny, but If I could have anything, I'd want another laptop. I just wish I had a PC to run [PowerPoint][] on. [Office][] for Mac isn't the same. 

I also miss having a desk in my apartment, so I'm going to try to get one of those next time I move.