---
title: Diana Kimball
summary: Writer, programmer (SoundCloud)
categories:
- developer
- mac
- web
- writer
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm Diana Kimball. Last year, I graduated from Harvard Business School and moved to Berlin to work at [SoundCloud][]. I'm a writer, reader, programmer, and data nerd. 

I hang out [on Twitter](https://twitter.com/dianakimball/ "Diana's Twitter account.") and reflect [on my blog](http://blog.dianakimball.com/ "Diana's weblog."). Occasionally, you can find me racing to finish a book with [24-Hour Bookclub](http://24hourbookclub.com/ "A reading flashmob.").

#### What hardware do you use?

I type on a 13" [MacBook Pro][macbook-pro] with Retina display, tap on a black [iPhone 5][iphone-5], and read on a [Kindle Paperwhite][kindle-paperwhite]. From time to time, I clean my laptop screen with [iKlear Travel Singles][iklear-travel-singles]. I tuck my phone into a low-profile fabric case. Working at SoundCloud, I do a lot of listening; for that, I rely on [these Sony earbuds][xba-c10ip]. [For recording](http://blog.dianakimball.com/speaking "Diana's talks."), I use a [Røde lavalier mic][smartlav] and a [Blue Yeti USB mic][yeti]. At the office, we use [Jabra USB speakerphones][speak-410] for group calls. I carry everything in a [black InCase messenger bag][leather-and-canvas-mini-messenger].

#### And what software?

I live in [Gmail][], [Google Docs][google-docs], and [Skype][] at work. I also spend a lot of time in [Terminal][]; I write code in [vim][] and recently switched to using [fish][] as my shell. Meeting notes, lists, and idle thoughts go into [Evernote][]. Longer chunks of text usually start out in [iA Writer][ia-writer]. Calculations happen in [Soulver][], a scratch pad that lets you show your work. [Acorn][] is my minimum viable image editor. I use [Alfred][] to launch apps, but I'm still hung up on [Quicksilver][]. [SaneBox][] [keeps my personal inbox manageable](http://blog.dianakimball.com/post/81885781593 "Diana's post mentioning SaneBox."). [MailChimp][] is the engine behind [an introspective letter I send out every now and then](http://expertnovice.com/ "Diana's mailing list."). [Kuvva][kuvva-mac] cycles through beautiful and surprising desktop backgrounds, while the [Momentum extension][momentum.2] for Chrome does the equivalent for new tabs. [TransferWise][] has the lowest fees I've found for transferring money from my German bank account to American ones. [I set a lot of timers](https://twitter.com/dianakimball/status/452873877551849472 "Diana's tweet about timers."), so I've tried a lot of timer apps, and [Timebar][] is the best by far. The [Heartbleed fiasco](http://xkcd.com/1354/ "The xkcd comic about Heartbleed.") motivated me to start using [1Password][], which I've been pretty happy with. [I use the thesaurus all the time](https://twitter.com/dianakimball/status/452566009673973761 "Diana's tweet about using the thesaurus all the time."), mostly by typing "[word] synonym" into Google. I turn to [Copy Paste Character][copy-paste-character] often for Unicode arrows and baubles, and lean on [The Noun Project][the-noun-project] for icons.

On my phone, I love playing meditative games. [Drop7][drop7-ios] is my all-time favorite. [Threes][threes-ios] is a worthy successor. [Monument Valley][monument-valley-ios] was breathtaking and over too soon. I also use straight-up meditation apps like [Calm][calm-ios] and [Buddhify 2][buddhify-ios]. I recently moved [NYT Now][nyt-now-ios] and [Artsy][artsy-ios] to my home screen so that news and art can find their way into quiet moments.

#### What would be your dream setup?

I wish I could learn keyboard shortcuts effortlessly and bend timezones to my will. I'd like all apps to update themselves automatically and invisibly, and all devices to charge themselves without cables. I wouldn't say no to a 3D printer. I'm also still searching for the ultimate book-highlighting-and-note-taking workflow. If you have one you're happy with, I'd love to hear about it.