---
title: Hilary Sargent
summary: News & Homepage Editor (Boston.com), founder (ChartGirl)
categories:
- editor
- mac
- news
- reporter
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I am [Hilary Sargent](http://hilarysargent.com/ "Hilary's website."). I very recently became the News & Homepage Editor of [Boston.com](http://www.boston.com/ "The boston.com news site.") (part of The Boston Globe). Before that, I was the founder of [ChartGirl](http://chartgirl.com "Hilary's chart site."). Before that, I investigated things like fraud and money laundering and the occasional political scandal. 

#### What hardware do you use?

When I'm at my [desk](https://twitter.com/lilsarg/status/447471749937258496/photo/1 "Hilary's photo of her desk, on Twitter."), I have a [MacBook Pro][macbook-pro] (2.4ghz, i5, 8GB memory) hooked up to two Dell 22" monitors and an external mouse and keyboard. In the rare moments when I'm not using it, I have a Cote & Ciel sleeve where it rests. (I also have a [MacBook Air][macbook-air] that I bought a year or so ago and never use.)

I listen to a [Uniden Bearcat police scanner][bc278clt] at work. I just bought a [Slingbox 500][slingbox-500] to record TV shows and press conferences. I use a [Verizon Jetpack][jetpack-mifi-5510l] for the not infrequent occasions when I need to edit something and I'm without Internet access. I keep a [Canon T3i][eos-rebel-t3i] in my car because you never know when you might need something better than a phone camera. 

I carry an [iPhone 5][iphone-5] like my life depends on it. I have a 1st generation [iPad][] that exists only so that my 3-year-old son can play fish pond and/or watch Curious George episodes in the backseat of the car. 

I have an old [Kindle][], or I did anyway. Haven't seen it in a while, meaning it's likely stuck between two unread issues of the New Yorker where it will live out its days hoping not to accidentally end up in the recycling bin. 

I use [Zebra mechanical pencils][zebra-number-2-mechanical-pencil-0.7mm] and Sharpies for almost everything. I write on the backs of receipts, in the corners of important documents, and on my hands.

#### And what software?

For ChartGirl - which is on hiatus at the moment - I used a combination of [Photoshop][] and [Omnigraffle][]. 

At work I spend a lot of time on the Internet (via [Chrome][]) and in the Globe's content management system — [Méthode][methode]. Other than that, my software needs are pretty limited: [Tweetdeck][], Photoshop, [Google Drive][google-drive], [Excel][] on special spreadsheet-appropriate occasions. I use the [Mailbox][] app on my phone, and have never come remotely close to achieving "Mailbox Zero."

During the rare 15-minute windows when I'm not working, I listen to music on [Spotify][], take photos out of airplane windows on [Instagram][instagram-ios], and photograph my kid using [Camera+][camera-plus-ios]. 

#### What would be your dream setup?

To never hear the words "content management system" again. 

Access to all Boston Globe archived photos via my iPhone. 

A phone that never needs charging. (Having [Chartbeat][] on your phone does not have a positive impact on battery life.) A phone charger that I never misplace.

A tiny printer like [this][little-printer] that prints reminders of meetings i'm about to miss and to-do lists. And an assistant to hand me those tiny pieces of paper. 

An office where all walls are painted with [IdeaPaint][]. 

A car navigation system that alternated between the voice of Ira Glass and Morgan Freeman.