---
title: Henry Monteiro
summary: Writer (Henry's Music Blog)
categories:
- writer
credits:
  name: Tracey Long
  url: http://www.flickr.com/photos/tlong/11572548583/
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I am Henry Monteiro, and I am the writer of [henrysmusicblog.com](http://henrysmusicblog.com/ "Henry's weblog."). I've been regularly writing it for slightly over two years now, beginning in December 2011, and I try to update every Wednesday and Sunday, though it's not a perfect schedule. I also write music, which you can find at [https://soundcloud.com/henry-mo](https://soundcloud.com/henry-mo "Henry's SoundCloud account."), and I'm a [twit](https://twitter.com/henrysaurus "Henry's Twitter account.").

#### What hardware do you use?

My main writing computer is an [iMac][], though I also use a laptop for when I'm writing from outside of my dad's house, which isn't sad because I'm 16. For music recording, I have an M-Audio keyboard, a [Maschine Mikro drum machine][maschine], and a [Yeti microphone][yeti], though that one's not used as much as I wish. On the analog side of things, I also have an acoustic guitar and banjo, a [Stratocaster][], and a [Squier Fender P-Bass][squier].

For music storage, all of it is located on a separate hard drive. None of my equipment is portable besides the laptop, since I don't tend to travel much. The only thing I ever really need when I travel is my fully-loaded iPhone, since I can never be far away from music. Music is always playing at my computer while I'm working, since I need backing noise so I don't drift off. At the time of writing this interview, I am listening to *Either/Or* by Elliott Smith.

#### And what software?

I usually try to keep my software setup simple, so that nothing ever gets lost or misplaced. For my writing, I usually write everything on [TextEdit][] and transfer it over to [Tumblr][] to post. For the first month or two, I tried to write directly into the text function on Tumblr, but I stopped after a power outage deleted an article, forcing me to rewrite it.

For my music, it's produced on [Garageband][], even though I know there are better services for computer-based music. Sometimes I use the cheaper sounds as part of the music, so I think it works out in the end. I also have [Mainstage 3][mainstage] for higher quality electronic music.

All my music is digitized and stored in [iTunes][] for easy access. I currently have 2062 albums in my catalog, but I hope to expand it further in the coming future. I am currently in the process of listening to all of them and rating them on [rateyourmusic.com][], where I am currently up to the L section. This started around late July, and I don't expect to be finished until late 2014-late 2015.

#### What would be your dream setup?

I'm doing pretty good with what I have right now. Maybe some better equipment to record music, and eventually a bigger music hard drive if I need it.