---
title: Colin Dismuke
summary: Ocean engineer (Delmar Systems)
categories:
- engineer
- mac
- windows
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

My name is [Colin Dismuke](http://www.cpdis.com/ "Colin's website."), I live in Houston, TX, and I’m currently an ocean engineer at [Delmar Systems](https://web-server-1.delmarus.com/Engineering/index.html "The Delmar Systems website.") where I help design, analyze, and install mooring systems, among other things. Recently, work has taken me back and forth to Australia half a dozen times so I've become a bit of a travel enthusiast. At home, I'm either training for a race (sometimes [triathlons](http://www.flickr.com/photos/cpdis/sets/72157637473975913/ "Colin's NYC Ironman photoset.") but mostly half marathons) or taking [photographs](http://www.flickr.com/photos/cpdis "Colin's Flickr account.") with my wife.

#### What hardware do you use?

Since we're a Windows only engineering firm I use a [Latitude E6230][latitude-e6230] with a 12.5-inch screen, 2.9 GHz i7 CPU, 8 GB RAM, and 256 GB SSD running 64-bit [Windows 7][windows-7]. It's not the most powerful machine but it runs very smoothly and is more than enough when I'm on a plane or offshore. When I'm at my desk in Houston, the laptop is connected to a 27-inch Dell LED [monitor][ultrasharp-u2713hm] and [Bose Companion 5 speakers][companion-5]. In addition to the regular backups on our company servers, I have an [encrypted][truecrypt] 1TB Silicon Power Shock/Waterproof [external hard drive][armor-a80] that's incredibly durable and fast. To stay comfortable I sit in an [Aeron Chair][aeron] although I'm considering some type of arrangement that would allow me to stand for part of the day.

Each time I travel I try to remove anything that wasn't used or useful on the previous trip. At this point I can fit everything I need for two weeks in Australia/offshore in a [GoRuck GR1][gr1] and a small North Face Base Camp Duffel. It may be more efficient to use a hard roller suitcase, however, when traveling by helicopter to an offshore platform it's usually mandatory that your bag be soft on all sides. The real key to magically effective packing though are the various [Eagle Creek packing cubes][pack-it-half-cube] that fit inside the aformentioned bags. Not only do they allow for much denser packing they also keep your clothes, toiletries, and cables much more organized.

At home, almost all hardware is Apple-made not only because I find it to be better designed (both hardware and software), but because it streamlines my process of moving different media around to the various devices in the house. My main computer is a late-2009 27-inch [iMac][] with a 2.66 GHz Core i5 CPU, 12 GB of RAM, and a 1TB hard drive. Everything is backed up to a 3TB [Seagate Backup Plus][backup-plus] and a newly acquired [Space Monkey][space-monkey]. If portability and power is necessary we have a mid-2010 [MacBook Pro][macbook-pro] with a 2.4 GHz Core i5 CPU, 4 GB of RAM, and a 500 GB hard drive. Otherwise, my 64 GB [iPad Mini][ipad-mini-2] with Retina display and 32 GB Space Gray [iPhone 5S][iphone-5s] go with me wherever I go. I find that more and more often much of what I do at home and at work can be accomplished on my iPad which, even five years ago, would have been hard to believe.

When my wife and I are taking photographs, mostly for pleasure but sometimes as a service, we use two cameras. I usually shoot with a [D800][] and [Series E 50-mm 1:1.8 lens][50mm-f1.8-series-e]. The lens was manufactured in the early 80's and lacks the features of more modern lenses, however, I love the image quality and have grown to prefer the manual operation of the lens. When autofocus or image stabilization is needed we use a [D90][] and a [AF-S DX VR Zoom-NIKKOR 18-200mm][af-s-dx-vr-zoom-nikkor-18-200mm-f3.5-5.6g-if-ed] lens.

#### And what software?

There are two main applications that I use when working on mooring design projects: ANSYS [AQWA][]/[Workbench][] and [Orcaflex][]. Workbench is used to create meshes of new models that were designed in Solidworks. Workbench is a very powerful program that makes it possible to intergrate many ANSYS products into one interface, however, we simply export the meshed model as a text file of nodes and elements. From there [Sublime Text][sublime-text], the Windows Command Prompt, and [Excel][] are used alongside our in-house software to perform the mooring analysis and design in AQWA. Orcaflex provides a more visual interface and is used for various projects.

Most of the other software that I run at work is used to increase efficiency. [Breevy][] is used for text expansion, [Launchy][] as an application launcher, [Dexpot][] for creating multiple desktops, [WinSplit Revolution][winsplit-revolution] for window management, and [Greenshot][] for taking quick screenshots and outputting them to various sources. I use [Chrome][] for browsing.

At home [Aperture][] is used for photo management and most image manipulation. When more advanced photo editing is needed then images get opened in [Pixelmator][]. [Alfred][] is my application launcher of choice among many other things and [Divvy][] is used for window management. In addition, [BackBlaze][] runs periodically to provide yet another backup. I use [Tweetbot for Mac][tweetbot] and [Rdio][] for listening to music.

Across both platforms I use [Dropbox][] to keep everything in sync, [f.lux][] to adjust the brightness and temperature of all my displays, and [1Password][] for password management.

As far as mobile platforms go, on the iPad I use [Calendars 5][calendars-ios] to schedule appointments and reminders, [MindNode][mindnode-ios] for taking notes or brainstorming for a project, [Paper][paper-ios] for explaining ideas or quick sketches, and [PDF Expert][pdf-export-ios] for reading papers or journal articles. For almost any non-work related writing I use [Byword][byword-ios] since it works flawlessly across the Mac, iPad, and iPhone. During the day I usually have [Status Board][status-board-ios] open to show me the time in various time zones, tweets, emails, and a few other personal metrics.

On the iPhone I use [Pocket Casts][pocket-casts-ios] for listening to podcasts because of its reliability and overall design, [Weather Line][weather-line-ios] for checking the weather, [Drafts][drafts-ios] for short notes that might need to be used elsewhere, and [Fantastical][fantastical-ios]. I've been very impressed with [VSCO Cam][vsco-cam-ios] over the past few months. When offshore it's usually much easier and safer to pull out an iPhone than to carry around a DSLR (which are sometimes against rig regulations). Two great travel apps that I've used over the past year are [FlightTrack 5][flighttrack-ios] and [Banca][banca-ios].

Finally, there's a long list of apps that are synced across both the iPhone and iPad. [Clear][] for lists, [Tweetbot][tweetbot-ios], [Instapaper][instapaper-ios], [Omnifocus][omnifocus-ios], [1Password][1password-ios], [Reeder][reeder-ios], [Rdio][rdio-ios], and [Hangouts][hangouts-ios] for chatting.

#### What would be your dream setup?

A new [Mac Pro][mac-pro] powering dual Retina displays and the ability to run ANSYS software natively on OS X. Oh, and some type of teleportation that would allow me to travel to Australia sans 26-hour plane ride.