---
title: Ouliana Panova
summary: Student engineer, stained glass artist
categories:
- artist
- engineer
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

My name is [Ouliana Panova](http://panovanator.tumblr.com/ "Oulina's website."), I hail from the faraway Russian Motherland and I'm an engineer. Well, I'm a student engineer - I've been working on my [Materials Science](http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/materials-science-and-engineering/ "The MIT open course for materials science and engineering.") PhD at UC Berkeley for two years now. In order to keep myself sane in the process I do a ridiculous amount of crafts and have recently ventured into my most recent and, might I say, hardcore enterprise - stained glass. I took a one-day intro workshop at my [local studio](http://www.stainedglassgarden.com/ "A stained glass workshop in Berkeley.") and loved it so much that I decided to forego the traditional flowers and butterflies to fuse it with my other passion - [comic books!](http://imgur.com/a/OexpG#0 "One of Ouliana's stained glass pieces.") I have only very recently started reading American comics and this summer of 2014, as my pottery studio closed down for renovations, I found myself in a vacuum of crafts and, since the only other alternative would have been to do actual work, I instead plunged myself head first into this obscure new activity. 

What originally started as a clever "how to avoid doing research" ploy has kind of snowballed into this awesome thing - I have panels displayed at my [local comic book store](http://fantasticcomics.net/ "A comic store in Berkeley."), a show at the Stained Glass Garden studio, a full-on commission from a wonderful new family and I'm told that people ask about me at conventions. I've even opened [an Etsy store](https://www.etsy.com/shop/RavingsAside "Ouliana's Etsy store."), even though I have no idea what I'm doing. 

I also do sculptural pottery, chainmail and seed bead jewelry, pyrography, calligraphy, knitting, crochet, sewing, MTG altering, mosaics, embroidery and recently paper quilling.

#### What hardware do you use?

For the hardware, stained glass has a lot of tools that you have to use in order to complete a piece. I really like my [Fletcher running pliers][8-inch-glass-cutter-pliers] - I feel that they're the best way to snap glass, with great control over the crack propagation (glass isn't really "cut", it's broken along a line). The initial crack line is traced with just a regular, run-of-the-mill [oil glass cutter][600p-crl]. I grind all the glass pieces with a [Diamond Star Gastar glas grinder][the-diamond-star]. Those are really portable, but it gets loud.. I've been shooed away into the garage by Law students who wanted to study and were annoyed by the noise.

I like folding the corners of the copper foil with [this metal tool for cuticle care][cuticle-trimmer] - weirdly enough, it's the best shape for this very specific application.

#### And what software?

Software-wise, I just use the S sketch app on my Galaxy Note tablet to draw the pattern of the stained glass piece to be.

#### What would be your dream setup?

Ouuuu, I really want a table saw. A shiny new one, with a diamond dust blade.. Those allow you to cut any shape your heart may desire, even ones that are impossible to cut by hand, and they act as a grinder, too! And I would really like a studio of my own, with a table and a hose dedicated uniquely to stained glass, as the foam boards I use to put a much-needed barrier between nasty chemicals like flux and patina and my bedroom floor tend to warp rather quickly.