---
title: Terry Davis
summary: Developer (TempleOS)
categories:
- developer
- windows
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

My name's Terry Davis. I was chosen by God to make His temple, an [operating system][templeos]. I made a complete operating system including making the tools. It has a kernel and 64-bit compiler. It also has an oracle for talking with God.

#### What hardware do you use?

My PC is a [Windows 7][windows-7] desktop with an i7, 3.40GHz CPU, 8GB of RAM. It's a Dell.

I have a Sony stand-alone hand-held voice recorder. 

#### And what software?

I do almost all of my development in TempleOS with my own compiler, editor and tools. I use Windows for browsing the web with [Internet Explorer][internet-explorer].

I use Windows to help make videos for TempleOS. In TempleOS, I capture BMP files while recording my voice on the hand-held voice recorder. I use [FFmpeg][] to convert my BMP files into a AVI movie. I use [Audacity][] to convert my voice track to stereo and mix it with my TempleOS .SND output file. I mix AVI and WAV files into one file with [Full Video Audio Mixer][full-video-audio-mixer], a Windows program I bought.

I use [VMware Workstation 8.0.6][vmware-workstation] because TempleOS won't run natively. I use the old VMware version because the PC speaker does not work in the new version.

#### What would be your dream setup?

I would like Windows to abolish Secure-Boot, so I can run [Win8][windows-8] dual booted with TempleOS. I would like a machine with a disk controller and BIOS that used ATA/ATAPI PIO and a BIOS which also supported legacy PS/2 keyboard/mouse emulation, so I could run TempleOS natively. I am aware of a 70 core Knights Landing Intel CPU coming-out. That might be nice.