---
title: Justin Morgan
summary: Professional snowboarder
categories:
- athlete
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

My name is [Justin Morgan](http://justin-morgan.com/ "Justin's website.") and I'm 24 years young. I have been a professional snowboarder since I was 20. I grew up in Upstate New York in a tight-knit community known as Ballston Lake. I was raised in a hardworking genuine community where all my friends were my family. I loved to snowboard, but Ballston Lake was a solid drive from the mountains. I found ways to get to the resorts, skipping school with my friends during the week or driving to Vermont on the weekends, but I never felt I had enough time on a snowboard.

I realized that instead of wasting time traveling to the mountains, I could just bring the terrain park home. I packed snow into jumps, collecting scrap construction materials, grinding PVC pipes and rusty rails, building jumps out of plywood with nails bursting out the sides - anything to snowboard.

When I was 18 I felt I needed to take my career to the next level, so I moved to Breckenridge Colorado. [This](https://vimeo.com/39315500 "A video of Justin snowboarding.") is an example of who I am and what I do.

#### What hardware do you use?

**Board:**

I have ridden a variety of snowboards and bindings but my current setup is my all-time favorite. My snowboard is an Omatic "[Awesome][awesome.2]" true twin, 155 centimeters. There are a variety of camber types (flex pattern, concave or convex base structures), my favorite being the traditional camber for terrain park riding. This type of camber allows ultimate pop of the tip and tail of the snowboard, and because it's true twin it has the same response when riding regular or goofy. Omatic Snowboards are authentic, dependable boards that allow me to reach for excellence day after day.

**Bindings:**

[Burton Malavita][malavita] - one of the more playful bindings in Burton's line, responsive yet loose. They allow you to feel the board under your feet, but also bend at the ankles to provide smooth care free riding. 

**Boots:**

Adidas "[Jake Blauvelts][the-blauvelt]." If I had a dollar for every time someone has asked, "how do you like those boots?" I would be a millionaire, or I'd have almost 300 bucks... I love em'. As you may know, it's Adidas first year releasing their boots publicly. These babies have exceed my expectations - they have great arch support and are responsive. Most importantly, they allow some flex in the ankle that makes it easier to initiate power through the ankles moving upward.

**Outerwear:**

Under Armour ColdGear and spring gear. Head to toe... even my underwear. Nuff said.

**Goggles:**

I wear the [Smith I/OS][i-os]. My opinion, best goggles on the market. They have many lenses to choose from and are easy to interchange. They have great visibility and a clean look/style. Fresher than ya boy Will Smith rappin'.

#### And what software?

The most important software is what keeps me going in life; the mountain. When I'm out shredding with my friends, nothing matters, I have a clear mind and I live in the moment. Snowboarding, like music for many, has pushed me through many struggles in life. It has taught me discipline, courage, passion, pain and at the same time building many friendships. For me, no time on a snowboard is wasted time.

"Follow your heart and your dreams will never die" - Sandlot. 

#### What would be your dream setup?

I've actually lived my dream setup... riding in a private park at Copper Mountain in Colorado with [Shaun White](https://twitter.com/@shaun_white "Shaun's Twitter account."). Some of the best park jumps and rails I have ever seen. Snowmobiles continuously picked us up and dropped us at the top of the course, and it felt like endless laps and progression. What made it all worth it? Riding with one of the hardest working athletes I know.