---
title: joshua stein
summary: Developer (Pushover, Lobsters)
categories:
- bsd
- developer
- mac
- software
- web
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

My name is [joshua stein](https://jcs.org/ "joshua's website."). I live in Chicago doing software development and consulting under the guise of [Superblock](https://superblock.net/ "joshua's consultancy."). I make [Pushover][], a notification service and app. I also run [Lobsters](https://lobste.rs/ "A tech link aggregation site."), a technology-focused link-aggregation website. On rare occasions I still find time to hack on [OpenBSD][].

When I'm not behind a keyboard, I like to be behind a [steering wheel](https://jcs.org/exige "joshua's fancy car.") or a [joystick](https://jcs.org/tagged/arcade "joshua's posts about video game arcades.").

#### What hardware do you use?

I stand at a [GeekDesk][] and primarily type things into an [11" MacBook Air][macbook-air] which dual-boots [OS X][mac-os-x] and OpenBSD.

For mobile development I prefer to test on actual devices so I use a [Nexus 5][nexus-5] and an [iPhone 6][iphone-6], with two [Nexus S][nexus-s] and an [iPhone 5][iphone-5] for testing on older OS releases. I frequently use a [SideCar][] for keeping a development phone attached to my laptop screen.

I have a [Polycom IP 500][soundpoint-ip-500] phone on my desk for work calls, and sometimes I use my [Western Electric payphone](https://github.com/jcs/payphone "justin's payphone project on GitHub.") when I feel nostalgic.

I usually prefer to work in silence, but when I feel like listening to music, it's through some Klipsch speakers hooked up to an [Airport Express][airport-express] at my desk or through [Westone 4R IEMs][4r] hooked up to an [iPod 5.5 gen][ipod].

I use a [Kindle Paperwhite][kindle-paperwhite] for reading long-form articles and books.

#### And what software?

[vim][] is my [editor of choice](https://github.com/jcs/dotfiles/blob/master/.vimrc "justin's .vimrc file on GitHub.") with a few plugins like [NERDTree][the-nerd-tree] and [sbd][]. [mutt][] is [my mail client](https://github.com/jcs/dotfiles/blob/master/.muttrc "justin's .muttrc on GitHub.").

I use [ratpoison][] as my window manager on OS X and OpenBSD with a bunch of [xterms][xterm] using a mostly monochrome setup. [f.lux][] and [redshift][] help to work in the evenings.

I use [Firefox][] for web browsing and development with a few extensions like [Certificate Patrol][certificate-patrol], [Ghostery][], [HTTPS-Everywhere][], [Self-Destructing Cookies][self-destructing-cookies], [Tamper Data][tamper-data], and [Vimium][]. Occasionally I use [xombrero][] on OpenBSD when I want to do quick split-screen half-terminal, half-web-browser sessions.

For [Android][] development, I do everything in vim and push builds to my phone with an adb-over-WiFi app. For [iOS][], I have to tether an iPhone to my laptop and I develop in [Xcode][].

For non-mobile development I usually write things in [Ruby][].

#### What would be your dream setup?

I'm pretty close to it with the newer MacBook Air's battery life, light weight, low heat, and silent fans. I suppose a higher-density screen would be nice, but I don't dream about it.