---
title: Marc M
summary: Animator (Sick Animation), musician
categories:
- animator
- musician
- windows
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

Hi, my name is Marc M, AKA [Sick Animation](http://sickanimation.com/ "Marc's animations."). I make animated cartoons as well as music; often times together.

#### What hardware do you use?

I use a Windows-based PC and the [Adobe Creative Suite][creative-suite] for most of my computing needs. For my [online shop](http://www.sickanimationshop.com/ "Marc's online store."), I started screen printing my own t-shirts and things based on my cartoons. I use a one-head printing press that my Uncle made for me.

#### And what software?

I make my cartoons in [Flash][] and then export them through [After Effects][after-effects] and QuickTime. I use [Premiere][] for video editing and [Audition][] for recording voices and music.

I draw directly into Flash with a [22 HD Cintiq][cintiq]. I've gone without a Cintiq before - it's a must have!

For recording, I use a [Shure SM7B microphone][sm7b]. It's a really great mic for the price, especially for vocal stuff. I boost the signal of the SM7B with a [Cloudlifter][cloudlifter-cl-1]. It's a good pairing because the SM7B has a naturally low signal in. I interface with the computer through an [Mbox Mini][mbox-2-mini] - sometimes I use a [Lexicon Lambda][lambda], depending on which computer I'm on.

#### What would be your dream setup?

The dream set up, AKA the NEXT set up will include these 5 things:

1. A WhisperRoom - a portable sound-proof enclosure that you can scream in and not be heard. Freedom to go crazy on voices/vocals and not worry about neighbors hearing you. I want one that's at least 10' by 6' (to bring instruments in) and double-walled!
2. A [Roland TD-30KV drum set][td-30kv-s] - the best electronic drum set out right now, it has a ton of awesome natural sounding kits. It's unreal - go to the music store and play one!
3. A studio space with ample room to work and play in!
4. A small group of chill-ass hommies to help with animation and production!
5. Oh, and a multi-head silk screen press and a conveyer dryer, DAAAAAMN!