---
title: Raymond Gangstad
summary: Colorist, online artist (Shortcut Oslo)
categories:
- mac
- television
- video
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

My name is [Raymond Gangstad](http://raymondgangstad.com/ "Raymond's website."), and I work as a colorist and an online artist at [Shortcut Oslo](http://www.shortcutoslo.no/ "A post production company in Norway.") in Norway. I do color grading, online editing, graphics, and VFX for commercials, music videos, documentaries, TV series and films of any length. 

My main gig is color grading. And a colorist is someone who looks at your movie and asks himself what he/she can do to enhance your story. Color is a very effective storytelling tool and a satisfying niche to work within. I aim to be awesome at enabling filmmakers to hit it out of the park. 

For work and for life I try to embrace change and be a jack-of-all-trades. I constantly keep educating myself on software, tech, science and the visual arts. So that no matter what job title I might be having at any given moment, I live a creative and interesting life.

#### What hardware do you use?

For work right now I use a 2012 [Mac Pro][mac-pro] with 2 x 3,06 GHz 6-Core Intel Xeon. It has 64 GB of RAM and a ton of local and SAN storage. It's got a [Cubix box][xpander-desktop-elite] with an [NVIDIA GeForce GTX Titan video card][geforce-gtx-titan-black] hanging off of it for playing back crisp high-res raw video. I have two 24-inch displays for my GUI and a Panasonic plasma reference monitor for working on images.

In my day-to-day grading suite I use the [Tangent Element grading panel][element.3], and in our swanky grading cinema we have the nice [Blackmagic Design Advanced Control Surface][resolve-control]. That thing is like a Ferrari to Resolve colorists.

The cinema has a Christie 2K projector and a nice projection screen in a cinemascope aspect ratio.

At home I have a 2012 [Mac Mini][mac-mini] as a media center and hub for all my files. It's hooked up to a 55-inch TV, together with our [Apple TV][apple-tv] and gaming consoles.

I have a 2008 [15-inch MacBook Pro][macbook-pro] that has conquered death on several occasions and I refuse to replace it until it croaks on its own.

The computer I use the most is hands-down my [iPhone 5s][iphone-5s] (yeah, I'm on the S upgrade cycle) running whatever the latest iOS is. This device is like having R2-D2 in my pocket.

My [iPad][ipad-3] is a 3rd generation one that I use mainly for reading Wired, comic books and watching [fxphd](https://www.fxphd.com/ "An online VFX training program.") videos.

For my photography these days I've gone from having a [Canon 7D][eos-7d] kit with a bunch of nice lenses, via a tiny Sony NEX camera, to just using my iPhone. I am looking to buy a new camera any day now. I'm really excited about the [DxO ONE][one.4]. That kind of concept just HAS to be the future for photography!

#### And what software?

My main app is [Blackmagic Design's DaVinci Resolve][davinci-resolve]. We're currently on version 11 at our company, and I am really looking forward to upgrading to 12 as soon as it's out of beta. It's just a fantastic creative tool. It's fast, intuitive and you could run it on your laptop for free if you'd need to.

But if there is a suite of programs that I could not survive without professionally, it is the [Adobe Creative Cloud][creative-cloud]. I don't know what I would do without [Photoshop][], [Illustrator][], [Premiere][] and [After Effects][after-effects]. They enable me to work swiftly, problem solve shots and put things together for my clients in a very satisfying manner. 

I use [Viscosity][] to log on our VPN at work and [Screens][] both on the Mac and iOS for remote access.  [Lightroom][] and Apple's [Photos][] app is what I do for image editing on my Mac at home. My main web browser is [Safari][] at home and [Chrome][] at work. I love the tab syncing that [iCloud][] does with Safari between devices.  

I use all of Apple's iCloud stuff. It's been mostly working great. But I do use [Dropbox][] for sharing files between home, work and clients. And the Norwegian cloud storage service [Jottacloud][] is where all my private data is backed up to. I've got terabytes there and I pay almost nothing for it. We do live in the future after all!  [Spotify][] is my music service of choice. I watch [Netflix][]. I subscribe to HBO Nordic whenever there's a new season of Game of Thrones. And I rent movies on [iTunes][].  

This year I have not read one single book, but I have listened to a ton on [Audible][]. Way more than I would have been able to read the old fashioned way. For when I do read a book, I usually do that on a [Kindle][].

I listen to a lot of podcasts and my favorite app for that is [Pocket Casts][pocket-casts-ios]. They have a great podcast player on their website that syncs with your iOS app. I use that a lot at work.  Since Marvel is the place for all the new canon Star Wars comics these days, I use the [Marvel app for iOS][marvel-comics-ios] to buy those digitally. Getting physical comic books shipped from the US to Norway is too expensive and not at all environmentally friendly. 

My favorite Twitter app is [Tweetbot on iOS][tweetbot-ios] and on the Mac I enjoy the web interface. My Twitter handle is [@rgangstad](https://twitter.com/rgangstad "Raymond's Twitter account.").  I'm an [avid Instagrammer](https://instagram.com/rgangstad/ "Raymond's Instagram account.") and editing photos on my iPhone is almost like meditating for me. I mostly use [Snapseed][snapseed-ios] or [Darkroom][darkroom-ios] for the initial color correction. [VSCO Cam][vsco-cam-ios] is where I add film looks. [Mextures][mextures-ios] is for when I want to grunge things up. [LensFlare][lensflare-ios], [LensFX][lensfx-ios] or [Alien Sky][alien-sky-ios] is where I get my VFX. [Pro HDR][pro-hdr-ios] for those tastefully done HDR photos. And I love [incorporating Star Wars imagery](https://instagram.com/p/2S-hIzxT50/ "Raymond's Darth Maul photo on Instagram.") in my photos and for that I comp with [Photoshop Mix][photoshop-mix] or [Juxtaposer][].

#### What would be your dream setup?

I am really looking forward to enjoying immersive virtual experiences, [Snowcrash-style](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Snow_Crash "The Wikipedia entry for Snow Crash."). I would love to build [a VR cave like the one ILMxLAB has](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IeaLgPMGzkQ "A YouTube video of ILM's virtual reality lab."), in my living room. And get myself an [Oculus Rift][oculus-rift] as well. I'd be creating virtual worlds by day and fighting off velociraptors and hanging out on the Millennium Falcon by night.