---
title: Mel Croucher
summary: Pioneering video game developer
categories:
- developer
- game
- mac
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

My name is [Mel Croucher](http://www.melcroucher.net/ "Mel's website."). The history books say I'm the founder of the UK video games industry. My wife says I'm a benign idiot. I started out as a musician because you had to be in a band by law back then. Later I became an architect, but I wasn't very good, so I ran away to join the circus. I called the circus [Automata](http://www.automatasource.com/ "Mel's game company."), which was in November 1977, and began by broadcasting my games software over the radio.

I have done many things and experienced many wonders, but I seem to come back to videogames when I want to push the boundaries a bit. My current game features the last performance of Sir Christopher Lee, the old tart. It's called Eggbird and involves the creative uses of avian bodily wastes.

#### What hardware do you use?

One of those big [iMacs][imac], one of those little iPads, one of those pocket-fondler iPhones, a giant Korg Music Workstation, a hollow-body cherry red Ibanez guitar with a weapons-grade tremolo arm.

#### And what software?

[Pages][] for writing books, [Logic Pro][logic-pro] for editing and mixing soundtracks, [ScreenFlow][] for cobbling video. I also use an app called [Paper][paper-ios] for sketching graphics and animations, and of course [GarageBand][] for sketching audio. And the most important software of all.. a warm, damp Irish Setter.

#### What would be your dream setup?

I have achieved my dream setup, right here in the future. When I was young and the world was monochrome, I imagined a setup where I could travel everywhere and anywhere I wanted, lugging some sort of transportable machine, that would allow me to create the stuff of my imagination. Well, it's even better than I thought.

When I'm not wandering the planet and working away, I work from my home base on the South coast of the amusingly-named United Kingdom. It's a very tall, very old house by the sea, with miles of beach and ancient ramparts to walk on, a co-op on the corner to shop in, and a micro-brewery across the road to drink in, the National Health Service to patch me up when I am broken, and the Welfare State that pays me a senior citizens pension once every four weeks. Truly, this is paradise.

Thank you for reading this. Now go and do something wonderful.