---
title: Martin Pittenauer
summary: Co-founder (TheCodingMonkeys)
categories:
- developer
- game
- mac
- software
- suit
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm [map](http://twitter.com/map "Martin's Twitter account."). Or, if you prefer, Martin Pittenauer. I co-founded [TheCodingMonkeys](http://codingmonkeys.de/ "A Mac and iOS development house.") 11 years ago. We created [SubEthaEdit][], which won an Apple Design Award and kickstarted the idea of collaborative editing. Something now pretty common thanks to [Google Docs][google-docs] and virtually unheard of outside of academia back when we started.

We helped to transform [Toronto's city hall](https://vimeo.com/6175371/ "A Vimeo video of the Stereoscope installation.") into a giant pixel display playing Space Invaders and Pong, co-developed [BoinxTV][], an Apple Design Award winning video production suite and then became a indie game studio driven by our passion for – what could be more German – board-games. [Carcassonne][carcassonne-ios], "which remains a benchmark of masterful iOS translations of classic board games" according to Apple, is the flagship product. Most recently we expanded into original game ideas with [RULES!][rules-ios] a puzzle-game designed by frequent collaborator Marcel-André Casasola Merkle. It won two German developer awards and made the App Store's "Best of 2014" list.

I also write for a feminist pop culture magazine called "[Kleinerdrei](http://kleinerdrei.org/ "A German feminist pop culture magazine.")", work on two podcast shows and experiment with short-form video documentary series about games development called "[Monkey Business](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLYhEK9exwoaagDnDphIBumnigtAe3gPpL "A YouTube playlist of the Monkey Business documentary series.")".

#### What hardware do you use?

I'm living in Berlin on the weekend and work in Munich during the week, so my [MacBook Pro][macbook-pro] (Retina, Mid 2012) is my trusty companion on the road and at the desk. Working in a train has become second nature by now, I just wish Wifi would be more reliable. My [iPad Air][ipad-air] comes in handy for light writing, gaming and other entertainment.

I recently got an [iPhone 6 Plus][iphone-6-plus]. I figured that I would keep trying to reach the upper left corner of an [iPhone 6][iphone-6] with my thumb, becoming frustrated with it. With the Plus I don't even have illusions about that.

For podcasting I like to use [Beyer Dynamics DT 770 Pro][dt-770-pro] headphones for editing, [Beyer Dynamic DT 297][dt-297] headsets for the show, an [Rode NTG2][ntg2] for on-the-go and a [Tascam DR-680][dr-680] for multi-track recordings.

I filmed most of "Monkey Business" with a [Panasonic DMC-GH2][lumix-dmc-gh2] with custom firmware. For lenses I use a [Nikkor 50mm f/1.4][af-nikkor-50mm-f1.4d] and a [Lumix 20mm f/1.7][lumix-g-20mm-f1.7-asph].

#### And what software?

I love using [Mailplane][] for my email, [Tokens][] for generating promo codes and [presskit][]() to create press kits for our games. (The creators of presskit() also have a pretty great list of other [resources for game development](http://www.vlambeer.com/toolkit/ "A list of tools and resources for game development.").)

If I find some time to work on prototypes, I rely on [SourceTree][], [Xcode][] and [Unity][]. I also just have to mention [erlang][], which makes running a server like Carcassonne's feasible for a small shop like ours.

For writing I use [iA Writer Pro][ia-writer] and [Markdown][]. My Podcasts are edited with [Hindenburg][] and leveled by [Auphonic][]. And for video editing I use [Final Cut Pro X][final-cut-pro-x].

#### What would be your dream setup?

Well, of course there are things that would be nice to play around with, especially in terms of audio and video gear. [Voigtlander Nokton lenses][nokton-25mm-f0.95-type-ii], for example. Or for that matter, anything on 2 Player Productions' [gear-list](http://2playerproductions.com/blog/levering/408-gear "A list of the gear used by 2 Player Productions."). But my little experiments in that regard don't warrant a lot of expensive stuff. Generally I'm pretty happy with my current core setup. 

If we are talking about real dreams, I guess my "Wanderlust" and growing frustration with Germany's political and technological landscape would seduce me to say: A desk with a [Mac Pro][mac-pro] in [Portland](http://thebelmontgoats.org/ "A group of cute goats in Portland, Oregon.").