---
title: Kerry Alexander
summary: Musician (Bad Bad Hats, Mixed History)
categories:
- musician
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

My name is Kerry Alexander. I live in Minneapolis, MN. I'm a musician, songwriter, mix-maker, and a server at a café. I currently make music in a band called [Bad Bad Hats](http://www.badbadhats.com/ "A band from Minneapolis."), but I've been making music as a solo artist for many years.

I also have a mix series called [Mixed History](http://mixedhistory.tumblr.com/ "A collection of mixes for history's famous couples.") in which I make mixes that could have hypothetically been exchanged between famous couples in history. I like finding common thematic ground across different genres and I love the challenge of arranging a group of songs to tell a complete story. A soundtrack without the movie, if you will.

#### What hardware do you use?

I write almost every one of my songs on a Dixon classical guitar that my dad bought for me in middle school for $20. It's named Agatha, after [Agatha Christie](http://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2010/08/16/queen-of-crime "A New Yorker article about Agatha Christie."), whose books I love to read and collect. It's a small guitar, so it travels well. The nylon strings make it easy to play. It's my pride and joy. I have a red 1965 [Epiphone Olympic][olympic], which was the first serious electric guitar I ever owned. Before I got that guitar, I had never written riffs or attempted soloing, nor had I spent any time thinking about amps or pedals. When I got that guitar, it was like a whole new world was open to me. In some ways it felt like I was learning an entirely new instrument. But it was a great source of inspiration for that reason. I still have my Epiphone, but I currently play a white [Gibson SG][gibson-sg]. I play through a blue tone [Fender Blues Jr. III amp][blues-junior-iii].

I sing through a [Sennheiser e 935][e-935]. I recently bought a foam cover for my microphone to reduce getting shocked by it on stage. It has been effective thus far.

I have an ever-growing collection of pedals, but the ones I use most are my [Aqua-Puss][] delay pedal, my [Interstellar Overdriver][intersteller-overdriver], and my [Shaker Vibrato][shaker-vibrato].

A college ruled composition notebook + a [Pilot Precise V5 RT black pen][precise-v5-rt] is my fave combo for writing lyrics.

#### And what software?

For my mixes, I use [iTunes][] and [Rdio][] to sort through songs. Rdio's nice because I can search for songs I've never heard of using keywords. For instance, that's how I found Patsy Cline's version of "[You Made Me Love You](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rB5rlL8vDAo "A YouTube video of Patsy Cline singing 'You Made Me Love You.'")" for my Frankenstein and the Monster mix. Once the mixes are set in Rdio, I like to buy all the songs that I'm using. Because paying musicians is cool. And because I love having a stacked music library.

On the songwriting side of things, I probably use Voice Memos more than [GarageBand][] at this point for demoing new songs. I like the immediacy of recording into my phone. I like to sing in the car, work out melodies that way. I get so distracted in GarageBand. It's too easy to complicate things. I love when a song comes together from beginning to end with just voice and guitar. To let the melody and the lyrics shine in that way is really satisfying.

#### What would be your dream setup?

I would love to own a home with a finished basement, if only to have a place to store all of my guitar cases. They are the bulkiest, most annoying things to have in a small apartment. It would be amazing to have a dedicated music space to play and record in. Especially if I could just roll out of bed and be in it. I also wouldn't mind a [12-string Rickenbacker][360-12].