---
title: Lee Martin
summary: Designer, developer
categories:
- designer
- developer
- mac
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

My name is [Lee Martin](http://www.leemartin.com/ "Lee's website."). I'm a developer who has been helping artists market themselves online for over 12 years. In that time, I have been everything from a MySpace profile designer to Dave Grohl's personal nerd to the Experimental Developer (and first US employee) at [SoundCloud][]. I have worked with major labels and indie bands, rockers and rappers and everything in between.

#### What hardware do you use?

At the moment I have a 1st generation [Macbook Pro Retina][macbook-pro] which just alerted me that I might need to service the battery. Great. I guess I might own the new Macbook Pro soon? Regardless, I want to go on record to say: Fuck you Apple and your **shitty** wires. I don't think I've owned a single adapter or USB cable for less than 6 months before it became frayed on both ends and threatened to burn my apartment down. Anyway.. [iPad Air][ipad-air], [iPhone 6 normal][iphone-6], etc. My [Mighty Mouse][mighty-mouse] died but I think that one was my fault. I bought a new one.

I have some AIAIAI headphones for working at coffee shops but I gave that up this year so I stick to my home's Sonos system to play Drake while I work. I spend a lot of time on paper with my 23 pack of Sharpies. 24? Oh yeah, someone stole my blue. I'll find you motherfucker. Good ass pencils and an ol' Boston vacuum mount to keep them sharp.

#### And what software?

I've moved on from [Sublime Text][sublime-text] to [Atom][] because Sublime kept dropping my [CoffeeScript][] formatting. I like to take on bite-sized pieces of all my projects in [CodePen][] first and then bring everything into a [Ruby][]/[Sinatra][] project once I'm confident I can pull it off the bulk of it in a single sprint. I send my clients video demos of projects in progress (which I record with [ScreenFlow][]) so I don't have to fill support requests when they view the website in [IE7][internet-explorer]. [iTerm][iterm2] connects me to the Matrix. I'm a proud member of [Adobe CC][creative-cloud] and have been teaching myself not to hate [Sketch][]. Oh, and I quite like Rogue Amoeba's audio software like [Fission][].

#### What would be your dream setup?

Since I'm working from home now I'm likely going to swap this Macbook Pro for a desktop option (maybe [that trash can][mac-pro] or the new [iMac][]) and something much more mobile like a [Macbook Air][macbook-air]. That could be nice. However, if I'm left alone and the right ideas come along, I'm quite happy with my setup at the moment. It works and I can't complain too much. Maybe Apple understands they're just not good at wires and that's why they keep removing ports? Touché.
