---
title: Erin McKean
summary: Founder of Wordnik
categories:
- developer
- fashion
- mac
- web
- writer
credits:
  name: George Hall
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm [Erin](http://www.twitter.com/emckean/ "Erin's Twitter account.") and I run [Wordnik.com][wordnik], the world's biggest English dictionary (by number of entries). We just reorganized to be a [not-for-profit](http://blog.wordnik.com/wordnik-is-becoming-a-not-for-profit/ "Erin's post about Wordnik becoming a non-profit.")! I also blog intermittently at [A Dress A Day](http://www.dressaday.com/ "Erin's dress weblog.") and have written six books, most recently [The Hundred Dresses](http://www.amazon.com/Hundred-Dresses-Mckean-Erin/dp/1408190508 "Erin's book about iconic dresses."), and the novel [The Secret Lives of Dresses](http://www.amazon.com/Secret-Lives-Dresses-Erin-McKean/dp/044655572X "Erin's novel.").

#### What hardware do you use?

I am looking to replace my 2011 13" [MacBook Air][macbook-air] -- but don't tell it yet, I don't want it to get upset. I keep it on a [Rain Design Mac stand][mstand] when I'm in my home office, connected to an ancient Dell monitor. I rotate between a couple of different equally unsatisfying ergo keyboards and a [plain ol' Apple wireless][keyboard], and I use a Logitech ergo mouse with a scroll wheel and lots of buttons (but I don't really use the extra buttons). I use a gel wrist rest and sit on an exercise ball rather than a chair.

I have an [iPhone 4s][iphone-4s] and I'm dreading replacing it, as I like its size and the new iPhones are appreciably bigger. I still miss my awesome [Palm Pre][pre].

For sewing, I have a [Juki HZL-E80][hzl-e80] machine -- not expensive, a real workhorse. I've had it about eight years. On those rare occasions when it's in the shop, I use a 1950s New Home model 560 cabinet machine that I inherited from my husband's grandmother. It's just slightly more complicated to operate, so I don't use it as much. If the worst happened and BOTH machines were unavailable, I have a backup-backup machine, a very pretty 1930s Singer Redeye, that was [given to me out of the blue by a stranger](http://dressaday.com/2006/12/11/santa-drives-a-black-mini-cooper/ "Erin's post about receiving her Singer sewing machine."). I use a Reliable Velocity steam iron, which is nice and heavy, and an extra-big ironing board. I'm not picky about scissors and other tools, although I like the ones on [this list](http://dressaday.com/2012/10/29/five-sewing-tools-i-use-all-the-time/ "Erin's list of sewing tools.") a lot, especially the invisible zipper foot. I do have a large fold-out cutting table, which is essential. My sewing space is only big enough to use 2/3 of it at a time, but it's so much better than cutting on a dining table or (worse) the floor.

For plain old writing I like the pocket-sized Moleskine notebooks -- my latest one is [the softcover teal](https://www.flickr.com/photos/esperbot/16070016483/ "Erin's photo of her Moleskine."), which I really like. I like the little Field Notebooks too, but tend to hoard them instead of use them. If I don't want to carry the full notebook I clip a few index cards together with a tiny binder clip and just carry those -- I buy the cards at Ichiban Kan or Daiso. I like [Zebra Sarasa pens][sarasa] (.7) or, if I need something to make me write slowly, disposable Varsity fountain pens.

I always carry a mini-Sharpie and usually carry a tiny roll of duct tape.

#### And what software?

Years ago I used fancy custom SGML-based dictionary editing software that was written in Denmark and ran on [OS/2][os-2], but now I just use text editors. I use [Sublime Text][sublime-text] for coding and [TextWrangler][] for any kind of quick data-munging (because their regex engine is embedded in my fingers). I have just switched to [zsh][], and am kicking myself for not doing it earlier. I use [nano][] or [pico][] if I have to edit something from the command line (and yes, I know there are better options and no, I don't care).

The Wordnik front end is in [Node.js][node.js], so I'm spending a lot of time with Node these days. I really enjoy it. I even wrote a little npm module, [umpteen][] that's overdue for an update. It takes numbers and spells out words. We also use [GitHub][], [AWS][], [MongoLab][], [Orchestrate][], and [Papertrail][] for logging. MongoLab, Orchestrate, and Papertrail have wonderful customer service. The [Wordnik API](https://developer.wordnik.com/ "The Wordnik API.") is [Swaggerized][swagger]. I use [WPEngine][] for the Wordnik blog and my blog -- also A+ support. (Friends don't let friends manage their own [WordPress][] installations.)

For writing, I use the [Scrivener][] app for my drafts, separate notebooks for each project (the medium-sized Muji ones are nice), and index cards. (Once the manuscript is back from the editor, though, [Word][] track-changes is forced upon one.)

I use OneTab to keep myself from dying of tab exposure (that's a thing), [CloudApp][] so that I can send links instead of attachments, [JumpCut][] as a clipboard manager (although I'm looking for a new one) and [TextExpander][] to save SO MUCH TYPING. I try to make it a rule that the third time I type the same thing I have to make it into a TextExpander macro. I use [Pinboard.in][pinboard] to [keep track](https://pinboard.in/u:esperluette "Erin's Pinboard account.") of good model example sentences for machine learning inputs (and other lovely sentences that strike my fancy), and [Evernote][] to keep track of everything else. I use [Google Drive][google-drive] for anything that needs collaboration, aside from book manuscripts.

For email I use [Thunderbird][] because I like to have my email near me, where I can keep an eye on it, instead of up in the cloud. (I do back up to the cloud, with [Mozy][].) I use [Colloquy][] for IRC and [TweetDeck][] for Twitter, and am going to be using [Slack][] any day now, I can tell.

For reading I love the [Safari Books app][safari-queue-ios], the [Kindle app][kindle-ios], and [Bluefire Reader][bluefire-reader-ios] (especially Bluefire Reader). For news -- by which I mean keeping up with topics I'm interested in -- I like the [Reverb iOS app][reverb-ios] (of course). I keep non-Kindle ebooks in [Dropbox][] and sync them to BlueFire, very convenient! I mostly read on an [iPad mini][ipad-mini] these days.

I don't use any sewing software -- no pattern-making software or anything like that. For pattern reviews I look at [patternreview.com](http://patternReview.com/ "A sewing pattern website.") or the [Vintage Patterns Wiki](http://vintagepatterns.wikia.com/wiki/Main_Page "Erin's vintage sewing patterns wiki.") which I started a million years ago and now has a wonderful life of its own, with >70K patterns listed. I like downloadable patterns -- [BurdaStyle](http://www.burdastyle.com/ "A sewing community website.") has some great ones.

#### What would be your dream setup?

I'd like a Mac laptop about the same size/weight as the MacBook Air I have now, only with an infinite local hard drive, or, failing that, at least 2 TB so I can keep tons of datasets on my local machine. I'd also like something with a screen size that's about the size of a paperback book, but I don't want that thing to be my phone, too. I just want something easier to carry in my pocket than the iPad mini but big enough to read books on comfortably. I keep thinking I should get a cheap Android phablet just for reading, but that seems like overkill. I'd also like a keyboard/mouse setup that monitors me for overuse and throws up increasingly irate warnings on the screen when it looks like I'm doing myself damage.

For sewing I just want more space.. and a better way to organize the ridiculous amount of fabric I've acquired.