---
title: Chanda Prescod-Weinstein
summary: Theoretical cosmologist
categories:
- mac
- scientist
- space
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm [Chanda Prescod-Weinstein](http://www.cprescodweinstein.com/ "Chanda's website."), theoretical cosmologist, currently the Martin Luther King Postdoctoral Fellow in the Department of Physics at M.I.T. This means that I do a lot of reading and calculus in the hopes that I can figure out how the universe evolved and what most of the matter and energy content in it is made of. I think of myself as a theoretical physicist because quantum field theory is pretty foundational to my day to day work, but I also have degrees in astronomy and my work intersects with astrophysical research.

#### What hardware do you use?

Probably the single most important piece of equipment I own are my [Bose QC20i headphones][quietcomfort-20i] (and the [iPhone 6][iphone-6] they are usually attached to). As an introvert who is sensitive to external noises, it helps me gain a little control over my environment. Next most important is my [Apple iPad Air 2][ipad-air-2]. Unless I am going out for food or a stroll with my husband, my iPad is probably with me. I do almost all of my scientific publication reading on it, using my [Maglus Stylus][maglus-stylus] to make annotations. My Maglus really completes the setup.

For all my heavy computing/typing needs, I use a [15" MacBook Pro][macbook-pro]. For a long time I was opposed to using a Mac, but almost everyone in the astronomy community uses one, so eventually I gave in so that I can more easily use astronomy software. Of course, I need to be able to do calculations, but I also have a bit of a tendon condition in my writing hand. To make things easier on my wrist, I use a [Pilot Vanishing Fountain Pen][vanishing-point] in a Moleskine notebook or glossy magazine paper.

#### And what software?

On my iPad the most important app is [GoodReader][goodreader-ios]. I do almost all of my reading and highlighting in it, using [SugarSync][] and [Dropbox][] to organize my personal and shared project files. When I want to take notes or highlight non-computer readable text, I use iAnnotate. When a computer is necessary for calculations or to make plots, [Mathematica][] is my first choice because that's what my students like to use.

Recently I've also been learning how to do cosmological calculations using software called [CosmoSIS][]. If you feed CosmoSIS some basic theoretical premises, it can predict the astronomical data that we should observe if the theory is correct.

#### What would be your dream setup?

I wish my MacBook Pro would fold up somehow. Also, I think it should have a touch screen. Sometimes I forget it doesn't and start pushing things on my screen. I wish I could add a 12" iPad into the rotation so that it made more sense to use it for calculations, although that Sony e-paper notepad is looking increasingly interesting, maybe at a lower price point or with more capabilities. Also, it would be great if someone could sell a Moleskine-like notebook with glossy paper in it. That would be perfect.