---
title: Ryan Humphrey
summary: Illustrator, art tutor, creator of Bartkira
categories:
- illustrator
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm [Ryan Humphrey](http://ryanhumphrey.co.uk/ "Ryan's website."), and I'm an illustrator/zinester/aspiring tutor. I've been drawing ever since I was 16 in sketchbooks, so therefore it was the best idea to progress further into art education. I did a foundation course in Art and Design at UCA Epsom, then a BA in Fine Art at UCA Farnham. After the intensity of understanding being an artist and education, I took a gap year and drew solidly for 12 months, then applied for a MA in Illustration at Camberwell College of Arts.

Also, I'm the dude that created [Bartkira](http://bartkira.tumblr.com/ "The Bartkira project.").

#### What hardware do you use?

My hardware is Moleskine sketchbooks - all the time. I vary the range of sizes, but the main ones I use are A3 because the quality of paper is softer than the A4 Moleskine sketchbooks. Those I use are for more experimental pencil works because you can generate darker lines and force. Pencils I use are the [Pentel P200 Series Auto Mechanical pencil][p200], and Faber Castell TK-Fine mechanical lead pencils.

#### And what software?

Once a drawing is complete I use the programs came with my [HP ScanJet 200][scanjet-200] flatbed photo scanner just to alter the contrast on the pencil work. I like having the marks be super dark so visually it looks stronger. I never use [Photoshop][], so in some way I see myself as some sort of traditionalist. Then I post all my work online, no matter what quality the pieces are, because showcasing your work online as much as you can generates a strong following - plus it's great to see what your followers and fans think.

The main social media outlets I use are my [Tumblr](http://withapencilinhand.tumblr.com/ "Ryan's Tumblr site.") and [Instagram](https://instagram.com/withapencilinhand/ "Ryan's Instagram account.").

#### What would be your dream setup?

The ideal dream setup would be to become an illustrator/drawing tutor and teach abroad, maybe in Germany or a Scandinavian country. The obvious answer would be to make as much work as I can and enjoy it, but I do that now anyway.