---
title: Morgan Evans
summary: Writer, director
categories:
- director
- mac
- writer
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

My name is [Morgan Evans](http://totallymorgan.com/ "Morgan's website."). I'm a writer and director based out of Los Angeles. I've done quite a lot of what one would call "longform digital content". I also write television shows and movies, by which I mean people pay/have paid me to write television shows and movies but that doesn't necessarily mean they will ever become television shows or movies. Does that make sense? I also just finished directing a new Nickelodeon show I'm really proud of called "Homeroom". 

#### What hardware do you use?

When I write I use regular yellow legal pads you can get at Staples and [Skilcraft government pens][government-pen]. I can't emphasize how wonderful these pens are. They write for a literal mile and are built to give tracheotomies to the President. I'm not kidding. Google it. I write longhand first usually. I always have tons of legal pads all over the place. They're the only thing I can fill up. I'd take a shitty legal pad over a Moleskine any day.

I also have [15" MacBook Pro][macbook-pro] (Retina, Mid 2012) I need to replace. In addition to that, and God, bare with me... I have an [Olympia SM 3][sm-3] I will type on when I don't feel like writing and want to turn it into something fun, but that makes me feel insanely pretentious so I don't bust it out unless I really owe pages. Also I have a big cork-board and lots of colored index cards that end up all over the house.

I also have a [Brother HL-2170w printer][hl-2170w], which I could make a strong case for being the greatest printer ever made. I print out everything all the time.

#### And what software?

For outlining I use a combination of [Google Docs][google-docs], [Stickies][], and [Mindjet MindManager][mindmanager-mac]. Mindjet is wonderful, I heard about it because they use it in the writer's room at Teen Wolf. I've created a bunch of my own templates using Joseph Campbell story structure stuff and I just really dig how they lay it all out. For writing I use [Final Draft][final-draft], there's no real substitute. Occasionally I'll use [WriterDuet][] if I'm working with someone else.

I also feel it is of import to mention that I'm still using [Final Cut 7][final-cut-pro] and probably will until I'm dead.

#### What would be your dream setup?

I would like a bungalow on a studio lot I could smoke cigarettes inside. I'd keep everything else the same. 