---
title: Greg Maletic
summary: Developer (Panic), illustrator
categories:
- designer
- developer
- illustrator
- mac
- software
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm Greg Maletic. I work on various projects at [Panic](http://panic.com/ "A Mac and iOS development company."), though [Status Board][status-board-ios] might be the one people know the best. I also do some [illustration and design work on the side](https://gregmaleticwork.wordpress.com/ "Greg's illustrations and design work."), and in the past have done work for Walt Disney Imagineering. I made a [documentary about the pinball industry](http://www.tilt-movie.com/ "Greg's pinball documentary."), and I used to co-run a Java software company called Zero G Software that made an app called [InstallAnywhere][]. A long time ago -- in the Michael Schindler-Gil Amelio era -- I worked at Apple Computer, as a product manager on [OpenDoc][] and [Apple Guide][apple-guide].

#### What hardware do you use?

At work I use one of the new, cylindrical [Mac Pros][mac-pro]. It's more machine than I need, but I'm happy to take it.

For my Status Board work, I use somewhere between two and four iPads. The [iPad 2][ipad-2] and [3][ipad-3] are the best: 30-pin iPads are perfect for Status Board because they have flawless video-out. [Lightning iPads have gross artifacts](http://www.panic.com/blog/the-lightning-digital-av-adapter-surprise/ "An in-depth post about the Lightning Digital AV Adapter."), which I'll admit aren't noticeable to most folks, but still bum me out.

I just use one monitor on my Mac, an [Apple Cinema Display][cinema-display]. I have a hard time with multiple monitors: I end up spending all my time managing windows. [OS X Spaces][spaces] work great for me.

I use an old, wired Microsoft mouse, because I can't stand the extra weight of batteries-required wireless mice. I draw a lot with my computer, but I never learned how to use a stylus, so I use the mouse, and I think that may never change.

At home, I use an old-ish [13" MacBook Air][macbook-air]. When necessary, I sometimes plug it into a pretty old Cinema Display. (I just discovered my MacBook's [AirDrop][] isn't compatible with iOS AirDrop, so its days are probably numbered. I love AirDrop.)

I have a [Mac Mini][mac-mini] that runs my house: Insteon-based lighting, and [iTunes][]-based music that connects to speakers around our house. There's an external LaCie Thunderbolt drive where I store iTunes media; a second one stores [Time Machine][time-machine] backups. I'm about to upgrade the internal hard drive to an SSD because the Mini is just insanely slow whenever I have to actually sit down and use it. (As a server, its performance seems fine.)

#### And what software?

[Xcode 6][xcode] for iOS programming. [Dropbox][]: it's essential for everything I do. (I'd be happy for [iCloud Drive][icloud-drive] to usurp Dropbox's usefulness, but the phrase "not holding my breath" hardly seems up to the task.) [1Password][] does a decent but important job. We use [Slack][] for intra-company communication, and it's very useful, though 1) it's a firehose of information; it feels like a full-time job to keep up with it, and 2) their "native" client is a little too HTML-y for my tastes. But on the whole I like it. [iMessage][] has a ton of flaws, but unified messaging between all my devices is so useful that I still love it. [Rdio][] for listening to music, though I don't often do that at work.

To draw, I use [Adobe Illustrator][illustrator] almost exclusively. (I can't stand workflows that incorporate [Photoshop][] in tandem with Illustrator, so I try to do everything I can in Illustrator.) I'm a big fan of [Creative Cloud][creative-cloud]: I think software subscriptions are the future, and we'll all be better off for it.

I do a [Disney podcast](https://itunes.apple.com/us/podcast/the-golden-horseshoe-review/id632395411 "Greg's Disney podcast.") with some friends; I point this out primarily to bring attention to the fact that there is no good podcast creation software. I edit ours in [Adobe Premiere][premiere], and I know it's not even the best audio editing software in Creative Cloud, but it's what I know.

I run a [quarterly movie club with friends](http://matchcutmovieclub.com/ "Greg's movie club."), where we rent out a theater and show some cool, underrated film that no one has seen. I do our [movie promos](https://vimeo.com/user562016/videos "Greg's videos on Vimeo.") in Apple's [Motion][]. [After Effects][after-effects] is _probably_ better, but for some reason I've convinced myself that Motion's behavior-based approach is superior, even though in practice I haven't found that to be true.

#### What would be your dream setup?

I would like a retina display on my Mac Pro. None of the current solutions for doing this seem very appealing, sadly.

Looking way-out, I'd like a 32" iPad: one that basically looks like an iMac today, but that sits on my desk at about a 30 degree angle, sort of like a drafting table. And a whole slew of pro-level, touch-based software that replaces today's Xcode, Illustrator, and others.