---
title: Cynthia Krueger
summary: Patent agent, freelance writer
categories:
- mac
- patent
- writer
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

My name is [Cynthia Krueger](http://cynkrueger.com/ "Cynthia's website."). I'm a patent agent and freelance writer living eight blocks from the beach in San Diego. At the start of 2014, I decided to break free from a corporate cubicle and make my own way in the world. In a sense, this is my third career, following many years as an aerospace engineer with a brief interlude as an attorney.

Before making the break, I wrote numerous unpaid articles about surfing, women in surfing, and the environment for [_The Inertia_](http://www.theinertia.com/author/cynthia-krueger/ "Cynthia's articles on The Inertia."). Now I contribute to [_Mpora Action Sports Network_](http://mpora.com/articles/author/cynkrueger "Cynthia's articles on Mpora.") and a local weekly in San Diego, and also write patent applications. In my free time, I surf, blog about surfing, swim, skateboard, and volunteer for the [San Diego chapter of Surfrider](http://sandiego.surfrider.org/ "The San Diego chapter of Surfrider.") as a co-chair of the Rise Above Plastics committee.

#### What hardware do you use?

Most of my writing is done on a [Mac Mini][mac-mini], circa 2011. If I'm out and about, I take notes on a newish [Sony Xperia Z tablet][xperia-z]. My [HTC One S][one-s] phone is getting a bit slow, but it's still useful for recording interviews. As a backup, if I ask nicely, my husband lets me use the PC he put together from parts several years ago.

I have a Martian smart watch, although it doesn't get much use now that I'm not going to an office every day. Occasionally I go surfing with a [Panasonic Lumix TS4][lumix-ts4] to take photos and videos for [my blog](http://surfergrrrl.blogspot.com/ "Cynthia's weblog.").

#### And what software?

My Mac's just been upgraded to [OS X 10.10 Yosemite][mac-os-x], somewhat regrettably. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office is as behind the times as you'd imagine a government office would be, and the upgrade has broken my ability to access their EFS-Web system for filing patent applications. The PTO requires not only the use of [Firefox][] or an older version of [Safari][] instead of [Chrome][], but also [Java][] running in unsafe mode. Fortunately, their system still works in [Windows 7][windows-7] on that backup PC.

The tablet and cellphone are both running [Android][], 4.4.4 Kit Kat and 4.1.1 Jelly Bean, respectively. [Microsoft Word][word] is what I use for writing on the Mac, and on the tablet, there's [Google Docs][google-docs]. I suppose if I'd gone all in on Apple, I'd use more of the native software on my Mac, but I'm pretty deep into the Googleverse instead.

[Virtru][] is a [Gmail][] add-on that encrypts the email I send to patent clients, and [Boomerang][] is another add-on that pops email back to my inbox as a reminder. [Google Drive][google-drive] is handy for sharing files between devices and with collaborators. My browser is Chrome - unless I have to interact with the PTO - and my blog is hosted by [Blogger][]. I've got [Smart Voice Recorder][smart-voice-recorder-android] on my phone for taking interviews.

#### What would be your dream setup?

Could I have the system from _Minority Report_? I'd love to be able to just talk to the computer and move floaty things around with my hands.