---
title: Benjamin Porter
summary: Game developer (Moonman)
categories:
- developer
- game
- windows
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

Hi, I'm [Benjamin Porter](https://twitter.com/eigenbom "Benjamin's Twitter account."), and I'm an independent game developer. My current project is [Moonman][], a procedurally-generated adventure game. I recently finished over [365 days of daily pixel art](https://medium.com/@eigenbom/365-days-of-pixel-art-f6131f280537 "Benjamin's article about his pixel art challenge.") as a personal challenge.

#### What hardware do you use?

I've got a desktop PC (i7 4790) with 8Gb RAM, a [GTX 960][geforce-gtx-960], and a 2TB HDD. I use a [MS Natural Ergonomic Keyboard][natural-ergonomic-keyboard-4000] and have a [Wacom Bamboo][bamboo] for occasional sketching. I have two ASUS LCD screens -- one for my code and the other everything else.

At home I've got a [Toshiba Satellite P50][satellite-p50] running [Windows 8][windows-8] and connected to a pair of [Audio Engine A5's][a5-plus]. I've also got a [Mac Mini][mac-mini] which I used to develop some [iOS][] applications a few years ago. I've got a [NES][], [SNES][], [N64][] (which all still work) and a [360][xbox-360] (which doesn't). I use a [Moto G][moto-g] for personal mobile communications and telephony.

#### And what software?

Most of my day is spent in either [Microsoft Visual Studio Community 2013][visual-studio-community] or [The GNU Image Manipulation Program][gimp] (The Gimp). I use [Notepad++][notepad-plusplus] and [VIM][] to edit some files (.py, .json, .txt, etc) and I used [After Effects][after-effects] to cut together my recent [trailer](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9N1IYcloz3E "The Moonman trailer on YouTube."). I have a custom sprite editor called MoonPixel which I used to edit and organise sprites for my game, and I use [Audacity][] to edit sound effects. [Google Docs][google-docs], [Trello][] and lots of sticky notes help organise my life.

In my time off I draw pixel art, play around with [Unity][], or hang out on [Twitter][] via [Chrome][].

#### What would be your dream setup?

I don't really get excited about hardware specs these days, but I do look forward to a time when it's easy to sit outside on a nice day and work on my games. Huddled over a laptop doesn't work for me and glare always makes it tricky to see laptop screens. Some kind of fast e-ink device that i can interactively scribble code on (and have it execute) would be nice. We are definitely moving in that direction, so hopefully it won't be too far off.