---
title: Junio C Hamano
summary: Developer (git)
categories:
- developer
- linux
- software
- windows
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I maintain [Git][], a distributed version control system. Linus Torvalds (of Linux fame) started the project in April 2005, which quickly grew and gained many contributors, which I was one of. Linus passed the project to me later in that year, and I've been running the project ever since. We'll have the 10 year anniversary this coming April.

#### What hardware do you use?

The primary "machine" I use daily for my work lives somewhere in Google datacenters. It's all virtualised and I'm not sure what the actual hardware looks like - all I know is that the instance is assigned 3 recent-model Intel CPU cores with 12GB RAM.

On the end that has a keyboard and display, I use a [Samsung XE303C12-A01US 11.6" Chromebook][xe303c12-a01us], or more recently a [Toshiba CB35-B3340 Chromebook 2][cb35-b3340]. I sometimes use a [Lenovo ThinkPad X1 Carbon][thinkpad-x1-carbon] (running [Ubuntu][]). I also have [Vizio CT15-A5 15.6-In Thin+Light Ultrabook][ct15-a5] as a backup.

I carry a [Nexus 4][nexus-4] phone or a [Nexus 5][nexus-5] phone, and keep either a [Nexus 7][nexus-7] or a [Nexus 9][nexus-9] tablet on the bedside. I also keep a few Nook Simple Touch Glow-light e-Readers for bedtime reading.

To commute, I use a [Micro Sprite kick-scooter][sprite], as I hate walking and a bicycle is too bulky to get on a bus with.

#### And what software?

I use [Secure Shell][secure-shell] SSH client on my Chromebooks to log in to my primary development environment, which runs some version of Ubuntu Linux the IT folks at Google manage for me.

I have a set of long running sessions in [screen][]. In one of whose windows I run [emacs][], in which I use [gnus newsreader][gnus], and there I spend most of my day, exchanging emails with the project participants. Since the project I work on is a command-line tool that is primarily implemented in [C][], I use the usual CLI development tools, e.g. [make][], [gcc][], [gdb][], etc. The documentation is in [AsciiDoc][]. And of course, the history of the source code is kept in Git.

I use [GnuCash][] to keep track of my checking account and credit card usage. This program unfortunately does not natively run on Chromebooks, and that's why I have a Vizio Ultrabook that runs either Ubuntu or Windows. I however recently started to experiment with [crouton][], which allows me install a chrooted Ubuntu (or other variants of Linux) on a Chromebook and I can use GnuCash there. So far, this set-up seems to be working well enough for me, so I may be able to lose the Vizio someday.

I use [Calibre][] to manage my e-books, installing them to and removing them from my Nook e-Readers. I haven't experimented with this in the crouton environment yet, though. When I don't have my Nook with me, I use either [Google Play Books][google-play-books-android] (on Android) or [Google Play Books][google-play-books] (on Chromebook or other laptops) for my reading.

#### What would be your dream setup?

I am good with what I use right now. I used to be picky about CPU performance, thermals, DRAM timings and all that, and I used to build my own boxes by picking the boards and parts, but over time I learned that good enough is good enough.