---
title: Kitty Horrorshow
summary: Indie game developer
categories:
- developer
- game
- windows
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

My name is [Kitty Horrorshow](https://twitter.com/kittyhorrorshow "Kitty's Twitter account") and I'm an independent game developer. I make games that focus on exploration, architecture, atmosphere, storytelling, surrealism, fear, and emotional impact. To date I've made [Dust City][dust-city], [CHYRZA][], [Sunset Spirit Steel][sunset-spirit-steel], and [Rain, House, Eternity][rain-house-eternity], as well as a [smattering](http://kittyhorrorshow.itch.io/ "Kitty's games.") of small pocket-worlds and interactive fiction stories.

#### What hardware do you use?

I do most of my game development on my self-built PC: AMD FX-8150 Zambezi 8-Core 3.6GHz processor, CORSAIR Vengeance 16GB RAM, ASUS Sabertooth 990FX AM3+ AMD 990FX + SB950 6 x SATA 6Gb/s USB 3.0 ATX AMD Motherboard, Western Digital 1TB 7200 RPM HDD, FirePower ZT Series 750W power supply, MSI GeForce GTX 970 4GB 256-Bit GDDR5 PCI Express 3.0 x16 graphics card, all in an Antec Three Hundred Black Steel ATX Mid Tower case. With purple chassis fans, because I am a classy girl.

For sound and music, I use an [HP ProBook 455 G1 laptop][probook-455-g1] (AMD A6-5350M 2.90 GHz, 4GB RAM, Windows 7 Professional 64-bit). I also use an [Akai LPK25 USB keyboard][lpk25] for composing, and an [Alesis QX49 USB keyboard][qx49] and [Akai APC40 mkII controller][apc40-mkii] for playing.

#### And what software?

I do nearly all of my game-making in either [Unity][] 4/Unity 5 (for 3D games) or [Twine][] 1.4.2 (for interactive fiction). I make pretty constant use of the [PlayMaker][] and ProCore extensions for Unity-- they are absolute life-savers for an independent developer. For 3D modeling I use a combination of [Wings 3D][wings-3d], [Sculptris][], [SketchUp][], and [Blender][]. I tend to use some combination of [Paint.Net][] and [GIMP][] for 2D graphic design/image editing, or [GraphicsGale][] in the case of animated sprites. For sound design and music I use [Audacity][], [Bfxr][], [FL Studio][fl-studio], and [Ableton Live][live], along with a whole host of VST's and plugins, most found from KVR Audio. Sometimes when I'm bored and just want to make pretty things, I break out [Hexels][]. Everyone should get Hexels.

#### What would be your dream setup?

I've always wanted a killer PC with a huge, spacious desk for all of my music toys and a 3-by-2 grid of wall-mounted wide-screen monitors. A [3DConnexion SpacePilot Pro 3D mouse][spacepilot-pro] would be lovely. There are too many amazing Unity extensions to list, so a winning lotto ticket or a rich, mysterious benefactor would help with that. The idea of developing VR games is a long-term fantasy, so I end up wanting just about every new VR thing I ever hear about -- the [Oculus Rift][oculus-rift], the [Leap Motion][leap-motion-controller], the [Sixense STEM System][stem-system], a [Virtuix Omni][omni]. For music a top-of-the-line [MacBook Pro][macbook-pro] would be wonderful, and I'm dying to get my hands on a [Korg electribe][electribe] and a [Kaoss Pad KP3+][kaoss-pad-kp3-plus]. Not to mention everything Native Instruments has ever made or will ever make. All of this in an old, crumbling Victorian-style house that's completely paid-off, with sound-proofed walls and a German Shepherd named Countess and a claw-footed bathtub filled with warm black slime of dubious origin. I may have gotten ahead of myself.