---
title: Amy Wibowo
summary: Software engineer, Sailor Scout
categories:
- mac
- software
- web
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm a software engineer who just left my job as a web developer at [Airbnb][] to write [zines that explain computer science concepts](https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/sailorhg/bubblesort-computer-science-zines "Amy's zine project on Kickstarter.") in accessible and engaging ways through comics, diagrams, and stories.

I live in a [sunny apartment](http://starfruitphotography.virb.com/home "Amy's photos of her apartment.") in San Francisco with my cat Moxie. I like to go on bike adventures on my mint green bike named [Peppermint Patty](http://starfruitphotography.virb.com/home "Amy's photos from Provence, including one of her bike."). In past lives, I was an HCI researcher at [Tokyo University](http://www-ui.is.s.u-tokyo.ac.jp/en/ "The UI research group at Tokyo University."), a machine learning researcher with the ASIMO team at Honda Research Institute, and a violinist in the pit orchestra of a Tokyo opera company.

Oh, and I'm a real life Sailor Scout.

#### What hardware do you use?

A 2014 [15in MacBook Pro][macbook-pro], a 27in [Thunderbolt display][thunderbolt-display], gold [iPad mini 3][ipad-mini-3] to preview digital zines, gold [iPhone 4][iphone-4], [Sakura Pigma Graphic][pigma-graphic] black marker, [Zig Writer markers][memory-system-writer] for colors, printer paper. I love working with real life markers and paper so much.

I film and photograph mostly with a [Canon T3][eos-rebel-t3] and a [35mm f2 lens][ef-35mm-f2-is-usm], but I am super fond of my [Canon AV-1][av-1], Land Camera, and [Fuji instax][instax-mini-8]. I might have a camera collecting problem.

I love to play games on my turquoise [3DS][], and I keep it in a case designed to look like Sailor Mercury's [supercomputer](http://sailormoon.wikia.com/wiki/Super_Computer "A Wikia article about Sailor Mercury's supercomputer.").

#### And what software?

[Adobe InDesign][indesign] for laying out zines, [Photoshop][] for touching up marker drawings, [Illustrator][] for designing stickers, [iMovie][] for movie editing, [VSCO Cam][vsco-cam-ios] for photo editing while I'm traveling, [Sublime Text][sublime-text] for writing code, [iTerm][iterm2], [Simplenote][] for writing notes to myself, [Todo][todo-ios] for todo lists.

My favorite games lately are [Animal Crossing][animal-crossing-new-leaf] for the 3DS, [Link Between Worlds][the-legend-of-zelda-a-link-between-worlds] for the 3DS, [Lost Constellation][lost-constellation], and [The Yawgh][the-yawgh].

#### What would be your dream setup?

Lots of floor space to spread out paper and draw with markers, lots of plants and natural light, [Eames dowel-leg desk chairs][molded-plastic].