---
title: Jessica Lord
summary: Software engineer (Atom, Electron)
categories:
- mac
- software
- web
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm [Jessica Lord](http://jlord.us/ "Jessica's website."). I'm an engineer at GitHub on the [Atom][]/[Electron][] team. I get to write [open source](https://github.com/jlord "Jessica's GitHub account.") for work which is pretty awesome! I also do a lot of open source not for work. I'm really passionate about building tools that are accessible and hopefully empowering. 

My degree is in architecture and I used to be an urban designer for the City of Boston. A few years ago, a year as a Code for America fellow turned me on - and empowered me - to build open source software. So that's why I'm where I am now but I'd like to bridge the gap one day.

I also like to sew. I [used to do so more](http://www.ecabonline.com/ "Jessica and Elizabeth's sewing site.") before I started programing and am trying to get myself to disconnect more and get back to it these days. 

I like to travel, but hate flying. I like [painting nails](https://www.instagram.com/explore/tags/nailconf/ "Instagram photos of painted nails."). I love walking!

#### What hardware do you use?

I have a 13" [MacBook Pro][macbook-pro], it's my work computer and life computer because I can't deal with syncing. 

Even though I said I can't deal with syncing, I have an [11" ASUS Chromebook][chromebook-c201] because I wanted a little computer just for writing in cafes and not feeling like I was "working". This is how I learned that ARM processors were a thing and that dream wouldn't really be like I thought it would be. So now I mostly use it to test Atom and Electron on ARM because I think it would be great to have more software that works on these processors.

I have an [iPhone 6S][iphone-6s] and this fun [cat battery pack](https://www.instagram.com/p/uxtayeR0ec/ "Jessica's Instagram photo of her cat battery pack.") I got in Taipei, I love it so much! 

I have a retina [iPad mini][ipad-mini-2] for reading books, articles and blogs or streaming Law and Order episodes next to my laptop. 

I recently treated myself to a [Bernina 350][350-pe] sewing machine. A Bernina has been a dream of mine to have and it's like butter. Like butter! I inherited an older Simplicity serger from my Grandma and it's been so fantastic to have. 

I have a [Fuji X100T][x100t] camera that I'm sad to admit that after a year I'm no better at shooting manual with. But I like that it's so compact, I do take it with me most places and try my best! I also really like using the wifi it has to put photos directly on my phone or take photos with the camera from my phone. 

#### And what software?

I code in [Atom][], no surprise! I write [Markdown][] documentation in Atom, too, because the Markdown preview is great. But I usually also have something like 15 unnamed pages open in [iA Writer][ia-writer] or [Byword][] (I can't pick!) with notes and lists. It's kind of a mess. 

I use the [GitHub Desktop][github-mac] app for checking diffs when I care about the diffs ;)

I don't put my work email on my phone and most of the time I stay logged out of GitHub on my phone, too. I've also turned off [Swarm][swarm-ios] and [Twitter][twitter-ios] notifications. Niceeeee. But I do love Swarm and checking in places!

I have a terrible photos situation with some on my computer and edited with [Lightroom][] (which I don't know how to use) and some in the [Mac Photos app][photos] (which I dislike) and some on [Flickr][] and some not. I really want to get my photos act together.

I was periodically using [Rdio][] (RIP) but I too often forget to play music at all. This makes me feel like somehow I'm less human. 

On my iPad I use the [Kindle][kindle-ios] app for books and [Reeder][reeder-ios] for syncing blog posts when I'm traveling. And I have [Instapaper Pro][instapaper-ios]. I sync highlights from it to [Tumblr](http://jlord-reads.tumblr.com/ "Jessica's Tumblr site.") then use [IFTTT][] to sync that Tumblr to a Google Spreadsheet and then from there it's displayed my website with [Tabletop.js][]. Ha. 

I use Google Spreadsheets as a lightweight database a lot and have a library [sheetsee.js][] I made for doing fun stuff with that data. 

I use [Feedly][] to read way too many design and Scandinavian interior blogs.

Oh, and I use [mojibar][] for finding the right emoji. 

I've gone without a car since 2007 have have had the same 1980's Fuji road bike since almost then. But I recently got myself a [step-through European bike](https://www.instagram.com/p/7TaWo-R0Y0/ "Jessica's Instagram photo of her bike.") from Craigslist because I was tired of feeling a part of an aggressive pack of urban commuters. I want to feel chill and upright like a Berliner or Dane. It was a good choice! I got the [Linus Sac][the-sac] bag that clips onto a rack - it's so great not carrying things on your back. 

Paper! Pens! I jot a lot. Getting a new planner each year is a big deal. I have a lot of notebooks but mostly use Muji ones with Muji pens or [Pilot Hi-Tec-C][hi-tec-c] pens in .3 which are my all time favorite.

#### What would be your dream setup?

I think I'd like a like a smaller computer as a primary machine. I'd like a Photos app that was basically just a file manager with a few more features for viewing photos and didn't duplicate your photos or make them hard to find. I'd have [AirDrop][] work 100% of the time and batteries that lasted twice as long. Also if we're dreaming, I'd also have an industrial Juki in my basement so I could make all kinds of thick things. 

But I'd forgo those things for a different kind of dream setup - a room that was minimal and peaceful where I sat quietly, maybe with a book, tea and pen and paper. 