---
title: Claire L. Evans
summary: Writer, editor, singer (YACHT)
categories:
- editor
- mac
- musician
- writer
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

My name is [Claire L. Evans](http://www.clairelevans.com/ "Claire's website."), and I do a few different things. I'm a writer; I write about about tech, science fiction, and the future, mostly for [Motherboard](http://motherboard.vice.com/en_us "A collection of articles about tech and the future."), where I'm also "Futures Editor" of a science fiction imprint called [Terraform](http://motherboard.vice.com/terraform/ "A collection of sci-fi stories."). I'm the singer in a band called [YACHT](http://teamyacht.com/ "The band's website."). I'm also the co-founder and editor-in-chief of an iPhone app called [5 Every Day][5-every-day-ios].

In all of these pursuits I do a lot of stuff that doesn't quite hew to any of my various titles -- which is to say design, video production, lectures, making physical objects, app development, Internet experiments, etc.

#### What hardware do you use?

An [11" MacBook Air][macbook-air] as [TextEdit][] burner and Internet machine, desktop [iMac][] for anything more heavy-duty, like editing video. My [iPhone 6][iphone-6] serves as communication machine, audio recorder, camera, and digital notepad.

I write in unlined Moleskine and lined Muji notebooks, which are essential to my process; every song, story, and article begins as a handwritten something-or-other. I do my best writing when I am categorically offline -- on a plane, for example -- or in woozy periods of the mid-afternoon. I use fine-tip Muji pens or a LAMY fountain pen, when I remember to buy ink refills. Strong cold-brewed coffee at regular intervals is essential.

#### And what software?

I exclusively work in TextEdit for all editing and composition. I use [Apple Mail][mail] and [Safari][]. All my lectures and talks are written straight in [Keynote's][keynote] presenter notes. I use [Google Drive][google-drive], [Docs][google-docs], and Sheets for everything: to edit collaboratively, to maintain a master calendar for 5 Every Day, to author and store song lyrics. I hate Google Drive so much and the moment something better comes along I'm jumping ship.

Sometimes when I'm doing interviews via [Skype][] or on the phone I use Quicktime's audio recording function to make a record of the conversation. Then I just play it back in [iTunes][] or straight from Quicktime when I'm transcribing. There's probably a better way, but it works for me.

I work in [Wordpress][] and various proprietary CMS systems for my publishing concerns. My partner Jona and I just started using [Slack][] to manage our projects, but since it's just the two of us 90% of the time it's usually easier to holler across the apartment.

I use this kinda rinky-dink iPhone app called [RhymeZone][rhymezone-ios] as my primary rhyming dictionary when writing songs. [Adobe suite][creative-suite], of course -- I use [InDesign][] the most because we make a lot of PDFs in my household. I depend on [f.lux][] for when the darkness comes.

#### What would be your dream setup?

The proverbial "room of one's own." Every writer has a fantasy of a long, long wooden desk where they can splay their papers about. I am no exception. Other than that, I appreciate the simplicity of my current setup. I can work anywhere, anytime.