---
title: Brie Code
summary: Lead developer (Ubisoft Montreal)
categories:
- developer
- game
- windows
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm [Brie Code](https://twitter.com/briecode "Brie's Twitter account."), and I'm a lead programmer at Ubisoft Montreal. My last project was [Child of Light][child-of-light].

#### What hardware do you use?

Each person on the team has a different setup depending on their needs - or when they last got their hardware upgraded. But we all use fairly new PCs with two large monitors. I use one monitor for email and one for whatever else I'm currently trying to accomplish. We have an open office plan, so when I need to concentrate I wear an [Astro A30][a30] headset which I got at the launch party for [Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood][assassins-creed-brotherhood], and it's customized with Assassin's Creed tags. We also use various video game consoles and TVs. On Child of Light my team developed for PC, [PS4][], [PS3][], [XB1][xbox-one], [X360][xbox-360], and [Wii U][wii-u]. In general we share each console between 2-3 people.

I also use my trusty [iPhone 5][iphone-5] to keep track of email and urgent messages while I'm in meetings. I like to use Kate Spade notebooks for taking notes because they have whimsical little messages on each page and they're small and easy to carry anywhere. I only use [Sharpie Fine Point pens][fine-point] in black - they are amazing! Everyone should know about them! They feel good to write with and don't bleed through the paper. We also use a lot of whiteboards and big poster boards for brainstorming and tracking our progress. And one of my lovely colleagues brought in a set of unusual colours of Expo dry erase markers so we have prettier whiteboards than everyone else.

At home I use a [13-inch MacBook Pro][macbook-pro] from early 2011 and an [iPad 2][ipad-2]. I want to upgrade my computer soon. Right now, if I want to program at home, I hook up my laptop to an [ASUS PB287Q monitor][pb287q], a [Logitech Multi-Device K480 keyboard][k480], and a [Logitech Ultrathin Touch T630 mouse][ultrathin-touch-mouse-t630]. The keyboard and mouse are wireless over Bluetooth and the mouse accepts multi-gestures like a trackpad. In the mornings, I motivate myself to get up early enough for work by listening to music in the shower with a water-resistant [iLuv MobiOut Bluetooth speaker][mobiout]. And I set up a charging station for everything in a [BlueLounge CableBox Mini][cablebox-mini].

I also have a PS3 and an Xbox 360. I haven't bought a PS4 or XB1 yet and may not buy one. I've been borrowing a PS4 from work every once in a while. I don't have Windows installed at home, so when I want to play a PC game, I play it at work during lunch. But most of the games I play now are on tablet or phone.

#### And what software?

My work computer is running [Windows 7][windows-7]. For email I use [Microsoft Outlook][outlook]. For documentation, schedules, and presentations, I use [Microsoft Excel][excel], [Visio][], or [PowerPoint][]. For development I use [Microsoft Visual Studio 2012][visual-studio]. For source control I use [Perforce][].

I have tried lots of TODO list and note-taking apps, but I still just use a table I keep open in [WordPad][] with sections for "Today's Three", "Tomorrow", "Reminders", "Done", and "TODO". TODO has all my open tasks grouped into categories. Reminders is for things for which I don't need to do any action, but should just keep in mind. Today's Three are the three things I want to get done today, Tomorrow is for the possible next three (though priorities usually change overnight), and I keep a backlog of recent Done tasks to be able to look at to help counter a sense of being overwhelmed when I am busy. Some of my team members make fun of me for using WordPad but it's simple and perfect for my requirements.

At home I use [MonoDevelop][] for programming and [Chrome][] for watching [Netflix][].

#### What would be your dream setup?

The [Mac Pros][mac-pro] are so pretty now. I would also be happy with a new PC built into a [DIYPC HTPC MiniCube][htpc-minicube] in Gold Aluminum. And I like to have a lot of those Sharpie pens around.