---
title: John W. McKelvey
summary: Music journalist, hip-hop historian, filmmaker.
categories:
- film
- historian
- journalist
- mac
- windows
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm John W. McKelvey, sometimes a.k.a. Werner von Wallenrod. I'm a [music journalist](http://johnwmckelvey.pressfolios.com/ "John's website.")/[hip-hop historian](http://wernervonwallenrod.blogspot.com/ "John's hip-hop website.") and [independent filmmaker](http://www.imdb.com/name/nm1527149/reference/ "John's IMDB entry.").

#### What hardware do you use?

Well, I'm a huge multi-tasker, so computer-wise, I run two alongside each other. A [Studio XPS 8100 Dell][studio-xps-8100] PC on the right and an [early 2008 Mac Pro][mac-pro] on the left.

I see plenty of people get hung up choosing one or the other in the Mac/PC debate online, but I find they both have their strengths and weaknesses, so no reason to swear allegiance to either side. I have a 1TB WD external drive hooked into the Mac, because you use up a ton of space editing high def video files, and a nice, cheap [Epson V500 scanner][perfection-v500] hooked up to the PC, and an extra internal Blu-Ray drive installed. The monitors are just two Samsung flatscreen TVs.

For music, I've got two [Vestax PDT-5000 turntables][pdt-5000] in the coffin you can see behind me in my photo, linked by a little [Vestax PMC-01A mixer][pmc-01a], and right now they're just outputting to the tiny speakers of a [Teac GF-350][gf-350] "multi-music player/CD recorder." And that's sitting on top of an old Sony dual cassette deck. I don't have a proper 8-track player, but in a pinch I use my old, single speaker [2-XL robot][2-xl].

For filming, in the standard def days, I used to us a [Panasonic DVX100b][ag-dvx100b]. I still keep it around for recording sound. But now I use a [Panasonic GH1][lumix-dmc-gh1], hacked so it can record in 24fps HD (commonly referred to as a GH13) and a new [GH3][lumix-dmc-gh3]. I've got an a couple Canon lenses I hook up to either of them, too, with an adapter. I use [Audio Technica 897 mics][at897], and I have a [Steadicam Merlin2][steadicam-merlin2] which I'll be using on whatever my next major film project turns out to be.

For recording phone interviews, I still use an old Radioshack cassette recorder than has phone line inputs. I have come up with a more modern way using my iPhone and connecting it to the Mac using my [Canopus ADVC-100][advc-100] - which I use for importing VHS or laserdisc footage - through the headphone jack. But it's still quicker and easier to just use the Radioshack recorder.

#### And what software?

Well, I've trained myself on various video editing programs, from [Adobe Premiere][premiere] to free stuff like [iMovie][] and [Windows Movie Maker][windows-movie-maker], just to be versatile. But my standard is the [Final Cut Pro 7 suite][final-cut-pro]. My Mac still has [OS X][mac-os-x] 10.8.5 (Mountain Lion) on it, because new OS X versions don't work well with the FCP package. Even Mountain Lion makes my [Soundtrack Pro][soundtrack-pro] crash at random points, and I'm not sure now much more advanced my old [MacBook Pro][macbook-pro] could go. Apple of course wants you to keep replacing your hardware and software; so you know, the new OS's need newer Macs to work, and the new OS's need the new software. But that's an expensive game, and I really don't need anything more advanced to edit with. It doesn't make sense to buy a new Mac to get a new OS to upgrade to FCPX to be no better off than I am now.

The PC is running [Windows 7][windows-7]. Some programs I use on there are [Photoshop][], [Paint Shop Pro 7][paint-shop-pro] (I can't let go of it! haha), [Audacity][], [DVDFab Passkey][passkey] to play multi-region discs, [MakeMKV][], [Final Draft 8][final-draft]... I'll still make web pages with Final Draft 2003. You'll notice a lot of old and/or free stuff, because I don't believe in throwing money at things unless I have to.

#### What would be your dream setup?

Well, as much as I talked about not excessively upgrading. But I have to admit I've gone to the Apple store and done that window-shopping thing where you [build your own Mac](http://store.apple.com/us/buy-mac/mac-pro?product=MD878LL/A&step=config "An Apple Store page for customising a Mac Pro."). If money were no object, I'd get one of those 6-Core, Dual GPU Mac Pro trash cans, with everything maxed out: 2.7 12 core processor, the most memory, RAM, best video card... I'd need an external Blu-Ray drive, and what the heck? Throw in one of those $4000 4k display monitors (I like that it comes to $1k per k). I've found it would cost a little under $15k.

Camera-wise, I'm pretty happy with what I've got, except I'd really like an [Olympus 75mm f1.8 lens][m.zuiko-digital-ed-75mm-f1.8]. But since we're talking "dream" setup, sure, I'd love a new [RED DRAGON][red-dragon]! If any angel investors are reading this, I'd make good use of it.

Music-wise, I'm pretty set for life. =)