---
title: Kate Towers
summary: Fashion designer, artist
categories:
- artist
- designer
- fashion
- mac
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

My name is [Kate Towers](http://www.katetowers.com/ "Kate's website."). I live in Portland, OR, with my husband and 2 kids. I originally went to art school for graphic design and illustration, but ended up in the fashion business. It's something I've always loved and kind of fell into. I am self-taught, so sometimes I take the unmarked road to get somewhere, but the process can be enjoyable. Everything is made in my studio.

I am:

1 - a mother: short order chef, taxi driver, master of laundry and squelching sibling quarrels. I pride myself in making birthday cakes and Halloween costumes for my kids every year, even though they'd probably prefer the store bought ones.

2 - a designer: I make limited edition collections and continue to search for the ultimate way to make a living as an artist. I also feel the need to work on other kids of art and I really enjoy many outlets of creative expression, whatever I can get my hands on.

#### What hardware do you use?

Because my computer skills are from 1994, I prefer the old school method of cutting and pasting, with all things that I do. I use my [MacBook Pro][macbook-pro] daily, to check email and "do business", [an iPhone 6][iphone-6] for photos and general communication. For sewing I have a [JUKI industrial straight stitcher][ddl-8300n], [Baby Lock Imagine serger][imagine], Ginger 8" dressmaker shears, and many other small sharp tools. When I draw I like to use [Pigma Micron ink pens][pigma-micron] and Prismacolor Premier markers, watercolors.

#### And what software?

I'm an [Instagram][instagram-ios] girl and prefer to say something with an image. I don't tend to over-post and you'll generally see photos of my kids and the occasional fashion items, when they are ready for public view. The dog makes an appearance once in a while but that's about it. Not too many selfies or green smoothies. I debate deleting my [Facebook][] account every so often, but can't seem to do it. The best way to get ahold of me is through email! 

Also, my fabrics: mostly natural fiber blends, cotton, silk, linen, denim, rayon. I love interesting textures and colors. I find that fabric is the most frustrating thing about designing. There is an abundance of really hideous textiles in the world and I have a very hard time committing to something I don't love. 

#### What would be your dream setup?

I'd love to have my own showroom, or perhaps a shared showroom and studio combo, something off the beaten path but centrally located with an abundance of natural light and industrial features, a great wall for photo shoots, a corner for messy art projects and a sink for hand dying fabrics, in-house production set up and a personal assistant :) 