---
title: Veronica Belmont
summary: TV host, emcee, podcaster
categories:
- emcee
- mac
- podcaster
- television
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

Hello! I'm [Veronica](http://www.veronicabelmont.com/ "Veronica's website."). My job is kind of hard to explain, but I'll do my best. My main gig is as a TV host and event emcee (typically for big corporate clients like IBM and Intel). I'm also a podcaster (both audio and video), and have been for the last eight years or so. I advise for startups and work with companies in the early stages of their products, too. 

#### What hardware do you use?

My workhorse is a [2013 13" Macbook Pro][macbook-pro]. For my home studio, I use a [Shure SM7B vocal mic][sm7b] running into a [M-Audio Fast Track Ultra][fast-track-ultra], and a [Logitech HD Pro Webcam C910][hd-pro-webcam-c910] for video and [Google Hangouts][google-hangouts]. For lighting, I use [Stellar Lighting Systems Webstar USB-Powered][webstar-usb-powered-led-ringlight] ring light. It's... ok. I need a better lighting kit. 

For recording interviews on-the-go, I use a [Sony PCM-D1 portable recorder][pcm-d1]. I also have the [Apogee MiC Digital Microphone][mic] as a secondary podcasting mic when I'm not at my home studio.

#### And what software?

For audio podcasts, I record everything in [Audacity][], and have been for years. I use [Audio Hijack Pro][audio-hijack-pro] for grabbing sounds from other sources like [Skype][] or [Chrome][]. To balance the audio out, I use a tiny free app called [Levelator][the-levelator], which is unfortunately no longer support by its creators (but it still works and is still downloadable from [Archive.org](https://archive.org/ "A non-profit Internet history collection.")). 

For blogging we use [Squarespace][], and for audio hosting I'm a big fan of [Soundcloud][]. We used to host everything on Archive.org as well because it's free, but it just went down too often (you get what you pay for!).

I use Google Hangouts for my video interview shows, and then rip the audio from the .mp4 file on [YouTube][] to post as the audio podcast version. If I'm editing video, I use [Premiere Pro CC][premiere-pro].

#### What would be your dream setup?

That's a really good question, which I ask myself a lot. I'm happy with my audio gear right now, but I'd love for my video to look better (and lighting, too). I'd love for my home studio to be a little more soundproofed, but I haven't found a really attractive way of doing that yet. I'm open to suggestions!