---
title: ELLE
summary: Street artist
categories:
- artist
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

My name is [ELLE](http://ellestreetart.com/ "ELLE's website.") - well, kind of.. that's my alias. I won't give you my real name! I do graffiti, street art, murals, and studio work, which includes mediums such as spray paint, acrylic painting, sculpture, and video work. I hand paint paintings and make silkscreens and post them illegally on the street.. I paint walls wherever in the world I'm allowed to, and I'm constantly re-inventing myself in the studio. I get bored quickly, so everything's fair game! At the moment I've been making lightboxes!

#### What hardware do you use?

The only hardware I tend to use is my laptop and iPhone.

Materials include Liquitex spray paint for murals (I'm sponsored by Liquitex, so I'm really enjoying free paint!). I also use their soft bodied acrylics to paint on wood panels, and also to fill up fire extinguishers to paint! I use Krink mops on the street, and Wite-Out. I also silkscreen posters for the street and for gallery work. Currently I'm using colored mylar to make lightboxes. What else? Pens and pencils, watercolor - I like to use pretty much anything I can get my hands on, mix it up and keep it fresh!

#### And what software?

As far as software, I would be majorly lost without [Photoshop][]. I use it for mocking up images of large walls, designing my posters and stickers, making my logo etc. I'm totally DIY so Photoshop is like my little assistant! I also have to say I love [Instagram][instagram-ios], it makes the job of social media super easy because I only have to post from one place, and it's image based - which is perfect for me! 

#### What would be your dream setup?

I would love to have a massive studio that is open air in the summer and closed and warm in the winter, where I didn't have to worry about getting paint on EVERYTHING. I dream of fire extinguishers filled of paint, being let off inside brand new white interiors and it being totally cool!