---
title: Kathy Foster
summary: Bassist (The Thermals), drummer (Hurry Up)
layout: interview
categories:
- mac
- musician
credits:
  name: Jason Quigley
---

### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm Kathy Foster, musician, bassist in [The Thermals](http://www.thethermals.com/ "An indie band from Portland."), drummer in [Hurry Up](https://hurryup.cashmusic.org/ "A punk band from Portland."), home recording enthusiast, DJ KM Fizzy, Strange Babe. 

### What hardware do you use?

The first thing I think of when I hear "hardware" is cymbal stands. Most of mine are used and brand-less. I love my drumset though. It's a '69 Ludwig mahogany kit. My favorite sticks are ProMark's Neil Peart signatures. No, I'm not a Rush fan. They're slightly slimmer than average but made of white oak so they have a good weight to them. For bass, I play a standard [Fender Jazz bass][jazz-bass] through an [Ampeg SVT Classic][svt-cl] with 4x10 Ampeg cabinet. I love my setup and haven't changed it for years. The 4x10 cabinet is the perfect size and plenty loud. I have my [Ibanez Tube Screamer pedal][tube-screamer] on at all times which gives me the perfect tone. I use a [Boss Super Overdrive pedal][sd-1] for feedback and noise, and sometimes the [Boss Digital Delay][dd-3] for added noise effects. I recently got a Boss Loop Station pedal to make pre-recorded loops of noise. I love noise! I also have a [70's Gibson SG guitar][gibson-sg], a [Fender Telecaster guitar][telecaster], a Fender acoustic guitar, [Ampeg Gemini combo guitar amp][gemini], [Fender Blues Jr. combo amp][blues-junior-iii], [Alamo combo amp][jet], and a few other effects pedals.

Oh, and I recently got a new [Mac desktop computer][imac] to replace my planned obsolete 2007 [MacBook][], mainly because I want to start recording music digitally. 

### And what software?

I haven't used much software lately, except [Photoshop][]. I used to work with [Illustrator][] a lot. I just bought Logic recording software though. I've always been into analog machines and have done a lot of home recording that way for years. I have a couple Tascam cassette 4-tracks and a 1/2" Teac 8-track reel-to-reel. I like the tactile experience of them, and their warm sound. I like how cool fuck-ups can sound. The Thermals and Hurry Up have recorded almost everything to tape. But I'm finally ready to experiment with a digital setup to save money and time, and to make some higher fidelity recordings. I do love lo-fi and trashy recordings the most though.

### What would be your dream setup?

My dream set-up is not so much about specific gear or equipment, though I love 60's-70's vintage shit. My dream is to have the perfect, cozy space where everything is set up and ready to use all the time - guitar, bass, drums, pedals, mics, recording gear, etc. I'm working towards that now. I've had it in the past and it makes a world of difference to be able to act upon inspiration when it hits. It's been a long time since I've been able to set up a space like that. I'm looking forward to getting to that place again.