---
title: Kirby Ferguson
summary: Filmmaker, writer, speaker (Everything is a Remix)
layout: interview
categories:
- film
- mac
- writer
---

### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm Kirby Ferguson and I'm a filmmaker, writer, and speaker. I made the series [Everything is a Remix](http://everythingisaremix.info "A video series about remixing.") and I'm now producing a feature documentary called [This is Not a Conspiracy Theory](http://www.thisisnotaconspiracytheory.com/ "An episodic documentary on the hidden forces in our lives."). I've spoken at TED, SXSW, Google, NYU, Columbia, and a bunch of other fancy places.

### What hardware do you use?

I use a Retina 4GHz i7 [iMac][] with pretty much everything except the hard drives maxed out. I actually have five external hard drives: my major work drive, three back-up drives, and a system back-up. Aside from it requiring a lot of ports and being a bit clunky looking, it works well.

I have a [Logitech K750 solar keyboard][wireless-solar-keyboard-k750-mac]. I love that it's solar, but otherwise find it merely adequate. I prefer the [wired Apple keyboard][keyboard] (which this replaced), but keyboards generally seem like unloved, forgotten devices. I wish someone would make a wonderful keyboard that isn't some plastic monstrosity.

### And what software?

I do almost all my writing in [Scrivener][]. I compile my research with [DEVONthink][]. For filmmaking, I'm almost entirely in the [Adobe suite][creative-suite]. Most of the time I'm in [Premiere][], [Photoshop][] or [After Effects][after-effects]. I use Google apps for [mail][gmail], [calendaring][google-calendar], etc. I use [Slack][] for teamwork communication and [Asana][] for tasks. I use [SuperDuper!][superduper] and [ChronoSync][] for backups.

### What would be your dream setup?

I'm pretty much there. Of course, more cores would be better, but I've got a pretty robust system. I'd love a single RAID drive rather than the small herd of drives I currently use. I'd love to a have [Google Fiber][google-fiber]-ish net connection. But really, if I were to make a major investment in my business it'd be for a new camera or a superb microphone for narration.