---
title: Emma Lugo
summary: Experimental game developer
categories:
- developer
- game
- windows
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I am Emma Lugo, and I make [experimental video games](https://lycaon.itch.io/ "Emma's video games."), usually first-person experiments in procedural generation, but sometimes they're 2D shooters or dating games or puzzle games or whatever I feel like making. I also sometimes make music, mostly for said video games. 

#### What hardware do you use?

My main work machine is a Windows desktop I built a few years back. I also have a Windows laptop that I use when I'm travelling. For recording audio, I have a [Samson C01U microphone][c01u] which is attached via shockmount to an [$8 IKEA lamp][tertial] I took the lamp part off of and mangled with a drill press. I also have a [Focusrite Scarlett 2i2 audio interface][scarlett-2i2] which I use to record my electric guitar, which is an extremely old Squier Stratocaster. For monitoring I also have a terrible <$100 Ibanez amplifier. 

#### And what software?

Almost all of the games on my itch.io page were made with [Unity][], which is a lovely piece of software that allows me to get things done so much faster than I would otherwise. I've used other engines and frameworks, but nothing compares to Unity in terms of what it lets me get done quickly. My code editor of choice is [Visual Studio][visual-studio] when working with Unity, and [Sublime Text 3][sublime-text] otherwise. 

I also rely on an immense amount of free and/or open-source software and libraries, including but not limited to: [Bfxr][] for sound effects, [Tiled][] and [Tiled2Unity][] for 2D level editing, the work of [Keijiro Takahashi](https://github.com/keijiro "Keijiro's GitHub account.") for many visual effects, the work of [James Hostetler](https://twitter.com/metkis "James' Twitter account.") for yet more visual effects, [Yarn][] and [Yarn Spinner][yarn-spinner] for dialogue. 

When making art (which I do very rarely), I use [Photoshop][] for 2D things and [Blender][] for 3D things. 

For audio editing I use either [Audacity][] or [FL Studio][fl-studio], depending on the intensity of the task. Usually I record audio with Audacity then bring it into FL Studio for editing + effects. 

For collaboration I mostly use [Skype][], which I would not recommend, and [Google Drive][google-drive], which I would recommend very heartily. 

#### What would be your dream setup?

More analog music things. Right now I lean very heavily on software synths and effects to get my music to sound right, which is not how I like doing things. I like having lots of physical knobs and buttons to push, and the limitation of only having the sounds I can make with my guitar and pedals (and hopefully synthesizers in the future) means that I can decide on sounds faster than having a whole world of sounds at my fingertips. 
