---
title: Peter Richardson
summary: Map hacker (Mapzen)
layout: interview
categories:
- designer
- developer
- mac
- web
- windows
---

### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm Peter Richardson, and I make unusual maps at [Mapzen][] in New York. As part of the graphics team I work on demos and tools and write blog posts, most notably about the [projection mapping](https://mapzen.com/blog/escape-from-mercator/ "Peter's post on projection mapping.") and [terrain lighting](https://mapzen.com/blog/mapping-mountains/ "Peter's post on terrain lighting."). Generally this means finding ways to make free data cheaper. The things I am best at are typing, and drawing on the whiteboard.

When I get the chance I ask awkward questions about obvious things at [fjord.style](http://fjord.style/ "Peter's website.") and make time-lapse videos, mostly of empty rooms.

### What hardware do you use?

I use whatever, at work we have a bunch of laptops and phones of various kinds for testing and so on. My computers keep dying or failing in various ways -- I used to be really into getting everything just like I like it, but I've had to reinstall everything so many times I've been trained to not be so picky. I think it's happening more often to me lately because I don't have the time to babysit computers like I used to.

So now within arm's reach I have an older refurbed 15" [MacBook Pro][macbook-pro] with a new logic board because I burned out the GPU on the old one, and a newer slower more reliable one I got to replace it but which will only drive my external monitor at 30 hz, and a Windows laptop and some others from home and overall I use the big MacBook most, but I don't find that my work really differs at all from one to another. More and more I prefer the slow machines because more people have slow machines, and that way I know what more people will see when they look at what I do. Also the slower ones are generally lighter, so it's easier to carry them around and show things to people.

At home I have a Windows box which I've upgraded ship-of-Theseus style for about 15 years. I don't think there are any parts of it left from the original machine. Maybe one of the fans. [Windows 10][windows-10] is really fast, and you can turn off all of the interface animation. Also you can copy a directory path straight from an Explorer window's address bar. That's probably my favorite thing about it.

If I could get a decent [bash][]-like shell to run both [git][] and [node][node.js] I'd use the PC more, but recently [msysGit][] was abandoned in favor of [Git for Windows][git-for-windows] which renders fonts funny and doesn't use Control-V for paste, so these days I mostly use the machine to assemble time-lapse videos I take on phones. I like making those because it's very easy to push a button on a phone and leave it somewhere and make something. Plus I find it's easier to do chores if I know I'll be able to watch it in the time-lapse, and that way I remember it going quickly.

I also have a second-gen 11" [MacBook Air][macbook-air] which is starting to lose its mind too -- the interface animation gets slower every year, and I've turned it down as far as I can. Lately various internal services keep asking me to type my password over and over, and none of the fixes I've found online work, but I don't dare update the OS. It's still easy to carry and still runs all my demos, so I use it to keep me honest.

Sometimes I carry it in a bag. I have a lot of canvas book bags and they work well because the laptop isn't very heavy. I also have a [bag][pine.3] made out of recycled bicycle tires.

If I'm going somewhere but don't need the laptop, I carry a [2-inch cylindrical pure tungsten element sample](http://www.ebay.com/itm/Tungsten-Metal-Cylinder-1kg-element-sample-/391122152992 "A sample of tungten on eBay.") instead. It weighs about the same as the laptop, and I don't have to worry about dropping it.

What else. I wear a variety of fake [Casio F-91W watches][f-91w] - you can get them in any color for $3 on [eBay][]. You can get them cheaper than that, but every one I've bought at the lowest price point has a bend baked into its band where it was folded over in its package and then apparently stored en masse in a hot place. So they tend to slide around to the side of my wrist, and the batteries don't last very long but I don't think that's related. I've replaced the batteries in some of them but it's a tedious process involving a lot of disassembly so I only do that if I need to relax.

I use notebooks to write and draw in, I prefer black ones with no lines, but I use other kinds too. I like pens and pencils. I have lots of kinds of each, I don't know how I got so many.

I have an [iPhone 5][iphone-5] I use for taking pictures, editing on the subway, listening to music on my Bluetooth earbuds, and receiving two-factor authentication text messages. I used to use it to read [Pocket][] articles, but I uninstalled it about a month ago to clear space for pictures and music and it turned out the reading was really stressing me out - I can still feel my brain's fur settling back down, and I'm sleeping better now that I don't read stressful things on a phone in bed. So lately I've been reading [books](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Book "The Wikipedia entry for books.") instead which I really enjoy. I might reinstall Pocket after the election but I think I prefer the photos and music.

I have a Russian paratrooper watch which was a birthday gift many years ago, which I love. It winds itself, but only when I wear it, and to advance the date manually you have to wind the hour *back* to 9pm and then past midnight. So normally I wait to wear it until the date matches, or is only a few days away.

The only piece of modern tech I'd actually recommend is a pair of Bluetooth earbuds. I have the [Jaybird BlueBuds X][bbx1mb], I like them. They've been discontinued but as I write this you can still find them. It turns out I've spent a lot of time in my life fighting headphone cords, and I'm happier now that I don't.

The oldest human artifact in my house, to my knowledge, is a pen nib from the late 1800s.

Once in Oxford I saw [some buildings](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mob_Quad "The Wikipedia entry for the Mob Quad in Oxford.") which were made before the invention of chimneys.

### And what software?

Most of my writing is done in the [Mac OS][mac-os-x] [Notes][] app. It's synced through [iCloud][], which has a web interface so I can use it on my PC, and also I can edit on my phone on the subway. I code in [Sublime][sublime-text] and I settled on [iTerm][iterm2] because it fought me least. I mostly code in [JavaScript][], and sometimes I use bash, or [Python][] when I can. I spend my time in browsers roughly proportional to their global usage statistics.

For the time-lapses I use a variety of buggy [Android][] apps syncing images to [Google Drive][google-drive]. The apps crash a lot which adds something to the result. Most of the time when I check on them I find that some kind of auto-update has stopped the capture, or frames have been dropped for unknown reasons which makes a jump in the time-lapse. My favorite is called [Tina Time-lapse][tina-time-lapse-android] which sometimes shows a personal apology from the creator when it crashes which starts "Dear Friend" so I keep using it. But I can't ever count on getting anything in particular, which makes whatever I get feel really lucky. I'm trying to think that way more lately.

### What would be your dream setup?

I'd like my own room with a door, and a comfortable chair and a window with a curtain so I can take a nap when I need to. Maybe someplace nearby I could walk to get a sandwich or a cup of coffee when I'm done with my nap.

I might eventually need a shed. Probably also a workbench with materials for experimenting with kite mapping. I've been reading up on the [Reynolds number](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reynolds_number "The Wikipedia entry of the Reynolds number.") and I think there's a lot of work to be done in that area.