---
title: Chris Remo
summary: Game designer, composer (Campo Santo), podcaster (Idle Thumbs)
categories:
- designer
- game
- mac
- podcaster
- windows
- writer
---

### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm Chris Remo. I'm a video game designer and writer, a music composer, and a podcast host. I work for a video game studio called [Campo Santo](http://www.camposanto.com/ "Campo Santo's website"), and we recently released our first game, [Firewatch][]. I also co-run a podcast network called [Idle Thumbs](http://www.idlethumbs.net/ "Chris' podcast network."), and co-host and produce some of its podcasts including the flagship [Idle Thumbs Podcast](http://www.idlethumbspodcast.com/ "Chris' podcast."), as well as the [Idle Book Club](https://www.idlethumbs.net/idlebookclub/ "Chris and Sarah's book podcast.") with my wife Sarah.

### What hardware do you use?

It depends on the project. As far as computers, for video game development I use Windows machines pretty much exclusively. I've always built my home PCs myself. For web development I use either my Windows PC or my [MacBook Pro][macbook-pro], depending on whether I'm at home. For music and podcast production, I mainly use an [iMac][] in the studio or my MacBook at home.

Outside the realm of computers, to record our podcasts we use Behringer C-1 condenser mics routed into a MOTU Firewire audio interface running into the studio iMac. (MOTU, amazingly, stands for "Mark of the Unicorn". Yes, really. I have tried, unsuccessfully, to figure out why.) When I'm making music, I use a Martin acoustic guitar, a [Fender Stratocaster electric][stratocaster], a [Fender Jazz Bass][jazz-bass], and a genuine mechanical-action electric piano made by Vintage Vibe, one of the few remaining manufacturers of non-synth electric pianos, and I love it a lot. For other instruments I don't own or play, I use samples or synth controlled with a simple MIDI keyboard.

I don't know if this qualifies as hardware, but Idle Thumbs has also spent the last few weeks and a bunch of money building out our new recording studio space, which is colocated with Campo Santo. We have been covering the walls in orange acoustic foam as a direct reference to the [secure conference room in the film Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy](http://i.imgur.com/jEqQ4aO.jpg "A still image from the movie Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy.") because we are obsessed with it and we thought it would be hilarious. The room is approaching completion, and I think our assumption of hilarity has been proven out.

### And what software?

Firewatch was developed with the [Unity][] engine, which is a pretty full-service game development environment. I love it. We augmented it with various plug-ins and middleware, including [Wwise][], an extremely powerful sound engine I used to implement all sound and music playback. We use [Perforce][] for version control.

For music composition and production I use [Logic Pro][logic-pro] exclusively, which is why I only use Macs for music. That's also the software I use to edit all our podcasts, although lately I've been using [Adobe Audition][audition] for various post-processing such as noise reduction before bringing the files into Logic for editing. 

For web development I work mainly in [Sublime Text][sublime-text], although sometimes I'll use [Coda][] if I'm working on my MacBook. Hooray for Panic! I also end up using [Photoshop][] just about every day for some reason or another, because that is the way of the world.

Across all projects and disciplines, I use [Dropbox][] obsessively. I don't know what I'd do without Dropbox. [Google Drive][google-drive], I guess?? 

### What would be your dream setup?

I honestly feel that I am not enough of a trained professional in any of my fields to know what my dream setup is supposed to be. Every time I see the setup of a composer or designer or podcast person or whatever, it always looks way more impressive than mine, but I'm such a generalist who's spread across so many different disciplines that I've never really narrowed down the specifics of what my complete environment should look like. In a totally ideal world, I'd have my own isolated soundproof room at home where I could play and record music, but given that I live in the middle of San Francisco, that world is an utter economic impossibility. Broadly, I can say that across all the things I do, the thing I always, always want is for my computer screens to be bigger, higher resolution, and greater in number. Also, I hate trackpads.

Even the nice Apple ones on MacBooks?

Yes, they are all bad. Here is my dream setup: Always having a mouse, and never having a trackpad.