---
title: Kelly Sue DeConnick
summary: Comic book, TV writer
categories:
- mac
- writer
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

My name is [Kelly Sue DeConnick](http://kellysue.tumblr.com/ "Kelly's Tumblr site.") and I am a comic book and television writer. 

#### What hardware do you use?

[iMac][] (Retina 5K, 27-inch, Late 2014). [iPhone 6 Plus][iphone-6-plus]. [MacBook Air][macbook-air] (13-inch, Mid 2013). [ScanSnap Evernote Edition scanner][scansnap-evernote-edition] (I LOVE this thing). [Yeti microphone][yeti] (for interviews and podcasts). Beats over-ear noise-cancelling headphones. Leuchtturn1917 notebook, an embarrassing assortment of pens, calendars, washi tape and stickers.

#### And what software?

[Scrivener][] (with [Antony Johnston's template](http://antonyjohnston.com/resources/scriveningcomics.php "Anthony's post about setting up Scrivener for writing comics.")) for writing comics. [Final Draft][final-draft] for writing television. [Mail][] for correspondence. [Evernote][] for filing. [Slack][] for team management and communication. [Skype][] (which I hate, but I use it frequently because I'm asked to) for interviews and virtual appearances. [Twitter][] for... I'm not sure what Twitter is for. [Numbers][] for those rare occasions I have to produces a spreadsheet or an invoice. [BusyCal][] for calendaring. [NovaMind][] for mind mapping (which I use when I'm planning/developing a story - there are probably better options out there, this just happens to be the one I know.) [Aeon Timeline][aeon-timeline] - I only use this for one book (Bitch Planet), but it's really helpful for that book. [SaneBox][] for email management - I love it desperately.

#### What would be your dream setup?

I'm pretty happy with my tools, I think? I hate [Word][], but I almost never have to use it. I hate Skype. Some version of Skype that was more dependable, would be part of a dream set up. OH I KNOW: a landline. I miss having a landline.

My dreams have less to do with my setup and more to do with having free time.