---
title: Evan Prodromou
summary: Developer, founder (fuzzy.io, Wikitravel, Identi.ca)
layout: interview
categories:
- developer
- linux
- web
---

### Who are you, and what do you do?

My name is [Evan Prodromou](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Evan_Prodromou "Evan's Wikipedia page."). I'm the founder of [fuzzy.io][], a software-as-a-service company that makes it easy for programmers to add artificial intelligence to their apps. I founded [Wikitravel](http://wikitravel.org/en/Main_Page "A travel wiki service.") and [Identi.ca][] in the past, and I was the founding CTO at [Breather][]. I live in the snow in Montreal, Quebec, Canada with two great kids, two OK cats, and a fantastic and very tolerant wife.

### What hardware do you use?

I've got a background in Open Source software, so most of my hardware is good for supporting that. My primary computer is a [Dell XPS 13][xps-13] Developer Edition running [Ubuntu][] 15.10. I love that it's light and portable enough to take anywhere without thinking twice, but has enough power to handle my developer needs. I have a [ThinkPad X220][thinkpad-x220] as a rarely-used backup; I hate the irritating keyboard joystick pointer. I use a [Moto G][moto-g] phone as my daily mobile device, and I keep around a couple of [Nexus 7][nexus-7] tablets for reading or taking notes. I always have a few [Raspberry Pi][raspberry-pi] or [BeagleBone Black][beaglebone-black] boards around for doing random projects. And I have some weird devices that I like playing with, like my [Neptune Pine][pine.2] phone-watch-thing which I only use on occasion for running.

### And what software?

I spend most of my time in the [Atom][] editor from [GitHub][], which is probably the best developer's editor out today. I use [Node.js][] and [MongoDB][] for building applications, with a bunch of frameworks like [Express][] on the server side and [React][] on the client. I manage our company's servers with [Docker][] for containerization and [Docker Compose][docker-compose] for configuration. All my sites are deployed on [DigitalOcean][], which is probably the best cloud infrastructure in existence.

For business, my team uses [Google Apps][google-apps] for email, docs, presentations, and [Hangouts][google-hangouts] for our daily standup. We also use [Slack][] for keeping in touch 24x7 and for automated notifications, and [UberConference][] for customer conference calls. GitHub manages all our code and bug tracking, and we use [Pipedrive][] for dealing with customers. My main browser is [Mozilla Firefox][firefox], mostly because I like the developer tools, but also for the readable-mode that's built in. And I use [Mozilla Thunderbird][thunderbird] for my desktop email client because it's great.

### What would be your dream setup?

I'm 6'2", so I like having big hardware. I think if I had my choice I'd keep a big 15" or 17" laptop in the office. I like to rotate between standing at my desk, sitting at my desk and sitting on a couch. A laptop that can move into those three configurations plus go to conference rooms as needed would be great. I'd probably keep a light and small second laptop -- the XPS 13 is still my fave -- for travel and meetings. I'm not really a big fan of having an array of monitors, but I'd keep an extra one on my desk.

Anything else? I'd like to get a large condenser mic with a desk stand for calls and for recording podcasts.