---
title: Sara Wachter-Boettcher
summary: Content strategy and UX consultant
categories:
- interface
- mac
- writer
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm a consultant running a [content strategy and UX company](http://www.sarawb.com/ "Sara's UX company.") in Philadelphia. I also lead a lot of in-house [content workshops](http://www.content-workshops.com/), speak at conferences, and write books - _Content Everywhere_ and _Design for Real Life_ (with Eric Meyer). 

#### What hardware do you use?

Until recently, I was using a 2013 [MacBook Air][macbook-air], but I was spending all my time waiting on the spinning wheel of death. So now I'm using my husband's more powerful [13-inch MacBook Pro][macbook-pro] from a couple years ago while I decide whether to get another Air or move to a Pro. I travel a lot for work, so I'm trying to find the balance between performance and weight. 

The [Logitech R400][wireless-presenter-r400] presentation clicker is always in my bag, along with a couple random dongles, some sticky notes, and some sharpies. Never know when you'll have to run a workshop! 

When I'm at home, I plug into a second monitor - it's big, basic, and from Costco. I probably bought it the same day I bought a five-pound bag of raw almonds and a 500-count bottle of ibuprofen. Much more exciting than the monitor, in my opinion, is my desk. Hardwood is hardware, right? Last year, my husband and I bought a Philly rowhouse with gorgeous third-floor office space, and I got what I call my “life desk”: it's [this stunning American Modern piece][catalina-30x60-desk] made by Copeland Furniture in Vermont. It's solid walnut and it's set up for me to look out onto our roof deck while I work. I feel extremely lucky to work in this space.

#### And what software?

I spend a lot of time in [Keynote][] for presentations, and [Pages][] for client-facing documents that need a hint of polish without too much effort. Since I don't do high-fidelity design work, I usually stick to super basic programs like [Omnigraffle][] for things like visual content models, sitemaps, and user flows. I also use a fair number of spreadsheets for auditing or modeling content. I'll happily use Google Sheets, [Excel][], or [Numbers][], though - it all depends whom I'm collaborating with. If a big corporation all uses [Microsoft Office][office], well, that's fine! I don't get hung up on it.  

My preferred writing software is [Byword][], which handles [Markdown][] really nicely. It's great for publishing anything that has to make it to the web. For book-writing, though, I'll admit that I usually end up back in [Microsoft Word][word], because it can handle things like merging feedback from a bunch of reviewers - and because it's a preference for many publishers. 

I love [Evernote][] for keeping client meeting notes (I make a folder per client), book interview notes, random ideas, grocery lists, packing lists, and basically anything else.

Like everyone in tech, I'm also entirely [Slack][]-dependent: I use it for work projects, as well as professional-ish groups (like the [Content + UX Slack](http://mjmetts.com/content-ux-slack/ "A UX and content Slack group.")) and, um, not at all professional groups (like Pizza Club, which is exactly what it sounds like). 

This isn't precisely software, but I moved to T-Mobile a while back, which means I get free data and cheap calling globally. It's a bit slower internationally, but it's really helpful to get off a plane in London or Munich and not have to worry about roaming charges or SIM cards. (Unless I'm on vacation - then I kinda wish my phone was still a brick.)

#### What would be your dream setup?

You know, I don't hang out thinking about my setup much, to be honest. The first year after I quit my last job, I worked at our tiny dinette on a laptop with no external monitor. Years two through four, I worked at the least-comfortable IKEA desk in the world, paired with the least-comfortable IKEA chair in the world. I still had no external monitor.

Even now, I'll work sitting up in bed with a lap desk from Target, or at the kitchen counter. I love working in a field where my setup can be minimal, and I can still get to work.