---
title: Alice Goldfuss
summary: Site Reliability Engineer (New Relic)
categories:
- developer
- linux
- mac
- web
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I’m [Alice Goldfuss](http://blog.alicegoldfuss.com/ "Alice's website.") and I’m a Site Reliability Engineer at New Relic, aka a professional worrier with root access. I’m currently stationed on our main data pipeline team, and I make sure that critical infrastructure keeps humming along.

I give [talks](http://blog.alicegoldfuss.com/talks/ "Alice's talks.") and run a [sad Twitter account](https://twitter.com/alicegoldfuss "Alice's Twitter account."). My spare time is spent petting neighborhood cats, collecting tea I promise to drink some day, and ranting about intersectional tech feminism.

#### What hardware do you use?

For work I have a [15” Macbook Pro][macbook-pro] that I hook up to a 27” [Cinema Display][cinema-display]. The laptop rests on a [Griffin Elevator stand][elevator] and the monitor on a [Fellowes][standard-monitor-riser]. I type a lot, so I use a [Microsoft Natural Ergonomic Keyboard][natural-ergonomic-keyboard-4000]. I also use an [Evoluent mouse][verticalmouse], which single-handedly (hah) saved me from crippling carpal tunnel. For audio I use [Sony MDR-7506 headphones][mdr-7506].

At home I have a 27” [ASUS MX279H][designo-mx279h] monitor, [GOGroove speakers][sonaverse-o2], and an original Pentium Macbook Pro that doesn’t know what the internet is anymore. My true personal computer is my phone, which is an [iPhone 5s][iphone-5s]. I got the 5 even though the 6 series had already come out, since there is only so much women’s pants pockets can do.

I couldn’t operate either setup without my glasses. They have hi-index (1.74) lenses with Transitions coating, because sunglasses are for people with time.

#### And what software?

If I’m writing something new, it’s probably in [Python][] (2.7 forever), although I can also do [Ruby][] or [Go][]. I use [vi][] on remote servers but [Sublime][sublime-text] locally, unless I’m rooting through [Java][] with [Intellij CE][intellij-idea].

If I’m messing with VMs, I’m probably using [VMWare Fusion][vmware-fusion]. I do most testing with [CentOS][]; but if I miss talking to our security team, I’ll just pop off a scan in [Kali][]. And, yes, I also use #containers like a good #thoughtleader.

My most-used apps are [Twitter][twitter-ios] and [Google Authenticator][google-authenticator-ios], for all those pesky 2FA sign-ins. For desktop password stuff, I use [Lastpass][]. For jamz I use [Spotify][]. For maintaining a reasonable circadian rhythm while living that #opslife, I use [f.lux][].

My personal sites are [Jekyll][] and [GitHub Pages][github-pages]. If I’m messing with photos, I use [Gimp][], and if I’m [designing a shirt](https://teespring.com/panic-at-the-kernel "Alice's t-shirt design on Teespring."), I use [Inkscape][]. I also really like [Safari][safari.2] for tech book reading, although my free subscription is about to run out (hint, hint, O’Reilly!).

Last but not least, a special shoutout to [kdump][] and [crash][], which let me feel like a noir detective on a homicide beat.

#### What would be your dream setup?

A [remote](https://s-media-cache-ak0.pinimg.com/736x/84/bd/17/84bd1713e99bae43c5bae64026a51563.jpg "A photo of a gothic mansion.") [gothic](http://i.dailymail.co.uk/i/pix/2014/02/10/article-2556136-1B5C058A00000578-676_634x448.jpg "A photo of a gothic mansion.") [mansion](https://s-media-cache-ak0.pinimg.com/736x/4b/62/e7/4b62e738013910939bd56841a8725c0f.jpg "A photo of a gothic mansion.") with a 100 Gbps hookup, enough monitors to fit all my browser tabs (spoiler alert: impossible), and a manservant to read my rude Twitter mentions to me while he polishes the silver.