---
title: Terri Burns
summary: Product manager (Twitter), chair of tech@nyu
categories:
- developer
- mac
- product
- writer
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm [Terri Burns](http://tcburning.com/ "Terri's website.")! I'm a product manager at a big company, an apprentice at a small company, and an occasional writer. But really, I'm just a lady who likes to make stuff, talk to people, and peruse the internet.

#### What hardware do you use?

I have two MacBooks -- an [Air][macbook-air] and a [Pro][macbook-pro]. I don't think one's really better than the other. I also have a planner and a notebook. The planner is used to organize all the things I need to get done during the week. The notebook is used when my planner gets too messy and I need to rewrite my lists (this happens often), and when I need to sketch through something I'm thinking about. Oh, and my [iPhone 6S][iphone-6s]. Pretty much always on that these days.

#### And what software?

I mostly use every product on the [G Suite][google-apps] a ton, except for [Google Plus][google-plus] and [Google Sites][google-sites]. I use [Twitter][]/[TweetDeck][], almost just as much. I [Snapchat][snapchat-ios] a lot, too. (Wow, I sound like such an obnoxious Millennial.) I also love [vim][] as my text editor, [Signal][signal-ios] to send encrypted messages, [Spotify][spotify-ios] for my music, and [Dark Sky][dark-sky-ios] so I can obsessively check the weather. 

#### What would be your dream setup?

It'd be cool to have a 27-inch Retina display [iMac][], to use as a monitor. But other than that my dream is just to have enough space for a really, really large desk to hold my monitor, laptops, a stack of notebooks/books, and other miscellaneous stuff. I think it's an attainable dream!