---
title: Bruce Shapiro
summary: Motion control artist, father of Eggbot
layout: interview
categories:
- artist
- developer
- software
- web
- windows
---

### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm Bruce Shapiro and [I use motion control to make art](http://www.taomc.com/ "Bruce's website."). "Motion control" is the unsexy term used by industry to encompass the many ways of using computers to orchestrate the movement of real objects -- "automation", "robotics", "animatronics", and so on. I became enthralled with connecting motors to a PC over twenty-five years ago, which turned into building my first art-robot to help my kids color Easter eggs -- the birth of "[Eggbot](http://egg-bot.com/ "Bruce's machine for decorating eggs.")." In 1991, this growing obsession, combined with having a very understanding wife, led to leaving my internal medicine practice to work on motion control art full time. 

### What hardware do you use?

On the computer-side, I'm extremely tethered to CAD/CAM software, some of it vintage, so I've stuck with PCs. My algorithmic design process involves real-time manipulation of huge numbers of vertices, so I throw as much processor speed and RAM in my desktop machine as I can afford. For travel, I just got a [13" ZenBook][zenbook-ux303ub], which I find impressive for the price. For art-machine control, in the old days I used laptops running DOS. Now I use [Raspberry Pis][raspberry-pi].

On the fabrication side, my key workhorses are the CNC-routers and laser-cutters in my shop in Sebastopol, CA, and [makerspace in Minneapolis](http://nordeastmakers.com/ "A makerspace in Minneapolis."). Though I have access to loads of 3D printers, I'm a far bigger fan of subtractive machining than additive. Maybe because I revere materials like wood and aluminum more than plastic. My love of CNC has grown through the years, and it's only fitting that I now use it to produce my kinetic sculptures -- which are themselves "performance" CNC machines.

### And what software?

Programming: My first language was [BASIC][], but it was too slow (back then) to control stepper-motors well, and so I moved to [C][]. Over the years I've learned some [LISP][] (to write algorithmic routines for early [AutoCAD][]), [Python][] (routines for [Blender][]), [Liberty BASIC][liberty-basic] (for quick Windows GUI dev), and more recently [JavaScript][], to make it easier to connect my machine-control code to web and mobile apps.

CAD/CAM: I've been using AutoCAD for so many years that it's become integral to my design process. Everything I build, I model first. I also used it for my algorithmic designs until "the kids" (30-somethings) at our makerspace turned me on to [Grasshopper][] (plug-in for [Rhino 3D][rhino]). I'm now a devoted fan, and use it for all my algorithmic design dev.

### What would be your dream setup?

Pretty much what I have now -- shop spaces in multiple places, with enthusiastic and skilled makers at my side, using amazing motion control technology to create art that can find its way into both [museums](http://www.taomc.com/installations-and-showings-1 "A list of Bruce's museum displays.") and [people's homes](http://www.taomc.com/blog/ "Bruce's weblog.").