---
title: Ryan Troy Ford
summary: Artist, designer, screenprinter (Ghost Press)
layout: interview
categories:
- artist
- designer
- mac
---

### Who are you, and what do you do?

My name is [Ryan Troy Ford](http://ryantroyford.com/ "Ryan's website."), and I'm an artist, designer, and screenprinter. By day I'm a freelance designer, working on everything from brand identities to motion graphics. By night I'm an illustrator, painter, half-assed musician, and I run a screenprinting shop with two of my best friends called [Ghost Press](http://www.ghostpress.co/ "A screenprinting shop in Chicago.").

For the record, I had to start using my middle name because there's another designer named Ryan Ford who's a lot more successful than I am. 

### What hardware do you use?

Pencil, pen, and paint for the most part. I love those [Staedler Pigment Liners][pigment-liner-308], Sharpie oil-based paint markers, and any paper with a good tooth, or any found object with a decently flat surface that can be sanded down for a canvas.

I've found a lot of meditative comfort in analog practices, though that's not to say I shun assistance from a computer when it's needed. For that, I have a [15" MacBook Pro][macbook-pro], [Wacom Intuos5][intuos], and [Epson Perfection V19 scanner][perfection-v19]. 

### And what software?

With things that can't be done by hand, [After Effects][after-effects] is my shit, but I also keep a close relationship with [Photoshop][], [Illustrator][], and [Cinema 4D][cinema-4d]. I run my personal site using [Jekyll][] and host it on [GitHub][], and for that I'm using [Sublime Text][sublime-text] and the command line. You should've seen me fumble my way through [Git][], [Ruby][], and [XCode][] to get that shit running. Imagine trying to teach a drunk dog to play Settlers of Catan. 

### What would be your dream setup?

A decently large, open studio with a lot of light, several dogs, fast internet, good record collection, and a garden outside. Preferably just outside of a city, perhaps in the Blue Ridge Mountains or Pacific Northwest somewhere. Big enough to be used as a community space for teaching workshops, hosting events, and fostering activism, but small enough so I don't feel the need to fill it with bullshit.