---
title: Jake Hollands
summary: Multi-disciplinary graphic designer
categories:
- designer
- developer
- game
- web
- windows
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm [Jake Hollands](http://jhollands.co.uk/ "Jake's website.") — or in person it's "_Jake Hollands -- no not Collins. Holland the country, but with an 's' on the end-- yes I know Holland isn't technically a country_".

I've currently settled on calling myself a 'multi-disciplinary graphic designer', but that does feel like a little bit of a cop-out. I used to work as lead artist at Roll7 making [Not A Hero][not-a-hero], creating a prototype for another game, and covering everything from character design & animation to typography, 3D design & marketing materials. I now work as a designer & front-end dev at [Tui media](https://www.tuimedia.com/ "A web agency in "), where I created my free web-game [SPACEPLAN][] in downtime & my free time. To my surprise it appears to have been very well received! My main area of interest is designing for enjoyable interaction.

#### What hardware do you use?

At work I'm using one of those lovely large, thin [iMacs][imac] with a [Magic Mouse][magic-mouse] & little [Apple keyboard][keyboard] — I love all three of these things. 

I go home to a gaming/rendering PC which I built with my brother. He used the GPU to mine dogecoins before they crashed, then sold it to me. Because of this patches of my screen will flicker & glitch out. It's fun, if not a bit worrying. My PC has a large mechanical keyboard with custom-printed keys — all in lovely grey & red uppercase Futura. It was great to begin with, but now it's just a noisy inconvenience — I much prefer my Apple keyboard at work. It also has the least obnoxious Razer mouse that I could find, and a Dell Ultrasharp monitor which I used to love, but have started to resent since I started using Apple's Retina displays at work.

Away from the computer I scribble in Moleskines like everybody else & found myself an 'Ogami Professional' book with 'stone paper', which I'm really getting into. I'll sometimes grab a pile of Muji passport notebooks too — they're great for small projects & quick ideas. I'm also in love with my Mark+Fold Mark One so much that I'm usually too scared to use it or carry it anywhere. As per [Sean McCabe's](https://seanwes.com/2013/hand-lettering-pens-pencils-brushes/ "Sean's article about hand lettering.") recommendation I tend to use [Micron pens][pigma-micron], and often a cheap biro or whatever pencils are laying about.

#### And what software?

After sketching ideas out I'll usually move on to [Adobe Illustrator][illustrator] to experiment & refine, then [Photoshop][] for texture, further refinement & colour editing if necessary. [InDesign][] for print work, and I can't recommend [Cinema 4D][cinema-4d] enough for designers who want to do quick 3D design — I've used it to create [sprites for pixel games](http://jhollands.co.uk/wp-content/uploads/anim_chopper1.gif "Jake's helicopter animation."), [models & characters](http://jhollands.co.uk/projects/idle-exhibition-play/ "Jake's experimental game.") for [Unity][], [cool GIFs](http://jhollands.co.uk/wp-content/uploads/spaceX_web.gif "Jake's spaceship animation.") to share on [Twitter][] & [Tumblr][],  and even used it in SPACEPLAN.

For game dev it's obviously Unity, although I've moved towards coding [JS][javascript] / HTML / CSS in Atom alone since I find it restricts thinking much less. I do need to experiment more with other code editors, but so far I love Atom very much.

I'm getting into using [git][] to stay organised, although I'm still experimenting with GUIs for Windows — none of them seem too great. [Tower][] on Mac is lovely however. For project management I'll use [Trello][] if I have others involved — it was fantastic for beta testers on SPACEPLAN. For independent management I'll use [Agile][agile-tasks-android] on my phone — it's very good for quick & simple task management.

When it comes to audio I'll usually mess around with [Audacity][] & [Adobe Soundbooth][soundbooth]. I'd love to get better with with other tools however — I've had a dusty MIDI Keyboard sitting around for years. I find [Ableton][live] quite intimidating so I grab my friend [Logan](https://twitter.com/logeyg "Logan's Twitter account.") whenever I need some polished audio done.

#### What would be your dream setup?

A simple MacBook Pro & Magic Mouse inside a large working space which discourages going straight to the computer for tasks. I'd like two desks — one covered in different types of paper, inks, paints & other things that I can make a mess with — the other clean, minimal computer bits, one of those [lovely Japanese flip-clocks that Cory Schmitz has](http://beautifulpixels.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/cory-schmitz-dialogue-bp-720x340.jpg "A picture of Cory's desk."), a pen and my Mark+Fold notebook. I suppose my dream setup would also involve either an [HTC Vive][vive] or perhaps a better choice — a decent daydream-ready phone so I can begin experimenting with accessible VR.