---
title: Viviane Schwarz
summary: Writer, illustrator, creator
categories:
- designer
- game
- illustrator
- linux
- mac
- writer
---

### Who are you, and what do you do?

I am [Viviane Schwarz](http://www.vivianeschwarz.co.uk/ "Viviane's website."). I write, illustrate and design interactive books, and I do related other work involving game design and improvisation.

### What hardware do you use?

Mostly paper, from the A5 sketchbooks I carry over cartridge sheets for dummy making to the massive rolls of corrugated cardboard I use to build interactive mazes and other installations.

I collect tools. I like to have the right tool for every job, and no one else is allowed near them.

I make my own drawing tools: pens and brushes assembled from parts, hand cut nibs and animal hair.

My main digital workstation is a table I built myself with an old cintiq tablet built into the surface run by an [iMac][]. I always have some low spec laptop to take to work away from my desk, usually some netbook running [Xubuntu][] - at the moment it's a [pi-top][] which works surprisingly well. I'm running [Ubuntu MATE][ubuntu-mate] on it, but I'm keeping a few other OS' on SD cards in a paper envelope sellotaped into the casing, just in case.

I work away from home a lot, in libraries and cafes. Then I just use whatever device is in my bag that day and log into [Google Drive][google-drive], and if the project needs any specific tools I am likely to have them coded or use whatever is available - my work is so varied that there is little overlap of software between projects. I often need tools for just one specific task, so I buy them from the developer as needed and then might not use them again for years, if ever.

One of my most important work tools is a bingo wheel which I throw wooden balls in labelled with the projects I need to work on - I've found it absolutely impossible to run a schedule based on priority, they all need work all the time and thinking about which one is the most pressing is just wasting time. I spin out a project, set a timer and work on it for half an hour or an hour to take it forward, then I spin again until it's time to stop working. It sounds quite ridiculous but it beats every other system I've ever tried for productivity; you just have to make sure the right balls are in the cage, throw in more if a deadline is approaching or take some out if something gets less urgent. Statistically, as long as it all gets done on time, who cares what order it happened in?

### And what software?

I use [Scrivener][] to write novels, it's frustrating that it doesn't work on mobile devices but it's still worth the fuss of carrying a laptop for writing.

For the illustration work I use [Adobe CS5][creative-suite], to be fully compatible with my main publisher. I'm expecting to change back to [GIMP][] eventually, there's no way I'll start renting Adobe, although I don't know how to replace [InDesign][].

I do most of my development work on paper, then I photograph or scan it if needed. [Gmail][] is so searchable now that it has replaced [Evernote][] for me. Most of the devices I use run Linux, but the specifics vary depending on what the device is used for in the project and what it can run. For example, last time I needed a teleprompter, I built it from an old eeepc, some open source teleprompting software (I forgot which) and a picture frame, a black petticoat and some gaffer tape. I added a USB controller from a [Makey Makey][makey-makey] and a breadboard because that was still to hand from a workshop teaching kids to make video games that week. By the end of the day it's all back in its respective drawers. If I'd been in a hurry I'd just have taped my mobile to the camera tripod and scrolled through the text with a spare Bluetooth keyboard. The best solution is usually the one that's to hand when you need it.

### What would be your dream setup?

A studio with brick walls and concrete floor, printing equipment, some work benches, big shelves. Enough space to be as analogue as I like.