---
title: Lindsay Small-Butera
summary: Animator, designer, director (Baman Piderman)
categories:
- animator
- artist
- designer
- director
- mac
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

My name is [Lindsay Small-Butera](http://smallbutera.tumblr.com "Lindsay's Tumblr account.") and I'm a designer, animator, and director out of a small home studio. I work primarily with my husband and creative partner Alex on work for television, commercials, music videos, and wherever else you can stuff animation into the gills of. I also do a wide range of illustration in my spare time for various personal and commercial work.

We also are the creators and sole producers of the hit web series [Baman Piderman](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLD0750A49525188E9 "The YouTube playlist of Baman Piderman episodes."), an all ages animated internet show about friendship. It's a notoriously... difficult show to describe. Maybe watch a few episodes on YouTube if you're curious.

I also teach animation design at the Massachusetts College of Art and Design in Boston.

#### What hardware do you use?

I work on an [iMac][] (27" model) with the quad core and Fusion Drive. The tablet I use to draw digitally is a 24x [Cintiq][] model that I have mounted on an Ergotron arm so I can move it around pretty easily, as my sitting posture ranges from "Raptor in rapt attention" to "Bones?". I love my Cintiq! I'd recommend them to anyone who is able and is passionate about digital drawing. Moving from a regular flat Wacom to the Cintiq upped my productivity in the day significantly.

#### And what software?

I use Adobe most of all, and primarily the [CS3][creative-suite] suite still, since it's my favorite. I have a subscription to the cloud for [Flash CC][flash] these days as well for work. The programs I use most are Flash, [Illustrator][], [Photoshop][], and [After Effects][after-effects]! 

#### What would be your dream setup?

I'd adore having a Cintiq Companion and to be more mobile in general; it's tough being tied exclusively to the office for most of the time due to the digital nature of our art! We have a lot of fun though and I'm just happy to have any kind of set up at all! Haha!