---
title: Fernando Ramallo
summary: Coder, designer, visual artist
categories:
- artist
- developer
- designer
- game
- mac
---

### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm [Fernando Ramallo](http://www.byfernando.com/ "Fernando's website."). I'm an Argentine maker creating playful art, games, tools and pretty things that squeak and poot to the touch. Last year I released [a game about musical landscapes][panoramical].

### What hardware do you use?

I work out of a [2014 MacBook Air][macbook-air] with 1 GB of free hard drive space, its network name is a Backstreet Boy and it has GNOG stickers on the back.

I use an actual real life notebook to take notes in.

### And what software?

I use [Unity][] and complain a lot about it. I keep trying to learn [Blender][] but it's just too dull and I'm too good at [3ds Max][3ds-max] (although I never got a license for it and I try not to pirate stuff anymore so I haven't been modeling lately).

I use [GIPHY Capture][giphy-capture] for GIFs. It's really good.

I use [Photoshop][] but wish I could strip out most of the features.

I've been frustrated with software lately so I started [making my own drawing tools](https://twitter.com/compositeredfox/status/783195466078924800 "Fernando's tweet about his drawing tools."), hoping to turn the process of making games into something like [WarioWare D.I.Y][warioware-diy]. Software should be fun!

### What would be your dream setup?

It'd probably involve a VR headset, a water tank and a brain scanner. As I float in warm peace I think of colors and shapes and they appear before me, as I manipulate them into beautiful animated sculptures.