---
title: Lauren Hallden
summary: Designer (RJMetrics), web tinkerer
categories:
- designer
- developer
- mac
- web
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm [Lauren Hallden](http://laurenhallden.com/ "Lauren's website."), and I'm a designer based in Philadelphia. By day I work at the business intelligence startup [RJMetrics](https://rjmetrics.com/ "A business data analytics company."), and in my spare time I like to make weird and wonderful projects on the web. Some of my favorites: [a twitter bot](http://www.laurenhallden.com/lonelyproject/ "Lauren's lonely Twitter bot.") that talks to lonely people, and a [lorem ipsum generator](http://www.laurenhallden.com/datingipsum/ "Lauren's dating ipsum generator.") that sounds just like an OkCupid profile.

#### What hardware do you use?

I'm fortunate to say I'm currently using a 15-inch Retina [MacBook Pro][macbook-pro] and a [Thunderbolt display][thunderbolt-display], though only for the last two years. Before that I was strictly a PC person. In fact, my early design projects were all created on a comically-heavy Dell laptop I'd been nursing along since 2008. Sometimes you've gotta make it work on a budget, and there's no shame in that!

I still have an [Asus desktop][essentio-cm6830] for home use. I don't use it for design as much any longer, but it serves me well for storage and backups.

#### And what software?

Most of my visual design work is done in the [Adobe Creative Suite][creative-suite] ([Illustrator][] is my absolute favorite of the bunch), although I've been trying to force myself to branch out. I've recently been experimenting with [Sketch][] and [Principle][].

For code, I'm typically in [Sublime][sublime-text] (or occasionally [TextWrangler][]). I'm also really interested in web analytics -- when I launch a new page or revamp an existing one, I always have a plan in place for measuring its performance. I use [Optimizely][] to test design variations, [Google Analytics][google-analytics] and [Tag Manager][google-tag-manager] to track user events, and our own business intelligence and dashboarding product, [RJMetrics CloudBI][cloudbi], to keep track of all my performance metrics.

One of the things I love about working in tech is that my coworkers are always test driving new software. Recently our team has adopted [Slack][] for communication and [Trello][] for project management. I also spent about six months using [Toggl][] for daily time tracking -- I'd previously used it to track freelance hours, but it's also helpful in estimating project lengths and prioritizing high-impact work.

#### What would be your dream setup?

I'm still looking for an efficient and intuitive way to catalogue design inspiration. Right now I'm rotating between [Evernote][], [Dropbox][], a collection of desktop folders, and even a bit of [Pinterest][] to help me reference things I like, but nothing seems quite right. If I could have anything, it would be the perfect visual bookmarking mashup.