---
title: Meg Lewis
summary: Designer (Ghostly Ferns)
categories:
- designer
- mac
---

### Who are you, and what do you do?

Yo! I'm [Meg](http://darngood.co/ "Meg's website."). I'm a value-based designer working for companies who share the same values as I. I like to call those companies Happy Companies: any company looking to make the world a healthier, happier place. For those companies, I'll provide them with any design need from interior design, to brand design and strategy, to UI/UX design.

I also founded a company called [Ghostly Ferns](http://ghostlyferns.com/ "A best friends freelance collective."). We're a family of freelancers, sort of like a collective, sort of like an agency. But, really, we're just best friends who found a way to work together as often as possible. We're a great group of friends with extraordinary talent. We even have an [online shop](http://ghostlyferns.com/shop "The Ghostly Ferns store.")! I head our Minneapolis office and the other half of the team is still located in Brooklyn, where I moved from a couple of months ago.

### What hardware do you use?

I use a totally cool gold [Macbook][macbook.2] when I'm traveling and a good ol' 27" [iMac][] as my everyday computer. I have a gold [iPhone 6s][iphone-6s] at the moment, but will probably upgrade for a better camera ASAP. I try, and struggle, to use a Wacom when I'm drawing and I use an old iPad when I'm watching TV in bed. I'm a slave to Apple but happy to move onto something else if I like the sound of it better!

### And what software?

My days are spent using [Adobe Illustrator][illustrator], [Sketch][] and [Keynote][]. I've been particularly loving Keynote as I've needed it a lot in the past year for speaking and teaching gigs.

If we're talkin' apps, I love me some [Foursquare][foursquare-ios]. I still use it for everything. A ton of my friends with good taste are on there and I use Foursquare daily to find places to eat, drink and shop. It's a lifesaver when I travel! I also love me some [Amazon Instant][amazon-instant-video] in lieu of cable. I have a Samsung Smart TV that lets me play anything from Dateline to new movies on Amazon. I'm happy to shelf out the money for each episode because it's still a heck of a lot cheaper than cable!

### What would be your dream setup?

I'd love a perfectly crummy warehouse loft space for the Minneapolis office of Ghostly Ferns. Currently I'm working from home in a spectacular space just for me. But, I think it would be nice to have a larger space with open doors allowing for friends and acquaintances to work out of. A place where I could share the energy of its inhabitants. That sounds absolutely wonderful.