---
title: Maggie Vail
summary: Executive director (CASH Music), musician (Hurry Up)
categories:
- mac
- musician
- suit
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm Maggie Vail. I am one of the executive directors of the nonprofit organization [CASH Music][cash-music], label manager of [Bikini Kill Records](http://www.bikinikill.com/ "A record label."), the bass player in Hurry Up, DJ Magic Beans, and 1/3 of the all lady DJ troupe Strange Babes. I'm also Johnny's best friend and am working on my first solo album.

#### What hardware do you use?

I use a 2014 [MacBook Air][macbook-air] for computing.

My bass set up for Hurry Up is an [Acoustic 370 amp][370] from 1972 (the year they started making them) with an Acoustic 407 cabinet. The cabinet has 2 x 15" speakers that I replaced in 1998 with ones that have SUPER heavy magnets. I've been carrying this around with me ever since without blowing anything. It's insanely heavy. I play a [1976 Fender Mustang bass][mustang] and I use an [Ampeg Scrambler pedal][scrambler] that is always on.

I have a 1966 or 67 Fender Mustang guitar and use an [Epiphone Blues Custom 30 amp][blues-custom-30].

My drum set is a 1968 Ludwig blue sparkle kit - 22" bass drum, 16" floor tom, and 14" rack. My snare is a [1966 Ludwig Supraphonic][supraphonic]. I have vintage Zildjian cymbals.

I also have a [microKORG synthesizer][microkorg].

I record demos on a [Tascam 8 track Portastudio][dp-008].

#### And what software?

This is probably the least interesting part of my life. I use boring stuff like [Mail][], [Chrome][], [Endicia][] for mailing stuff, [Slack][] for yelling at you, [Sublime Text][sublime-text], [Office][]. I have to use the shit out of [Excel][] for royalties. I uses [Notes][notes-ios] on my phone so I don't forget good song titles and lyrics. Been trying to use [TeamGantt][] but I don't get it really.

#### What would be your dream setup?

Computer-wise I'd like a HUGE monitor and a shit-ton of memory. I want this to magically pop up wherever I travel to. I do NOT want to carry it. I loathe actually using a laptop as I have terrible back problems and being hunched over all the time causes me pain but circumstances are such that I must work wherever I go. Sigh. 

I almost have my dream set up music equipment wise. I'd like to not share a hi-hat stand with my bandmate Kathy so I have it set up at all times. I need a better crash cymbal but I haven't found it yet. Other than that I have the drums I've always wanted. My guitar is a fucking dream. I miss my old Sunn bass amp, it's a solid state [Coliseum 300][coliseum-300] that seems to have a ghost in it. I've tried to have it repaired but the problem remains. I used to have to hit it in my old band, sort of like Fonzie, to get it to stop rumbling.