---
title: Waldo Jaquith
summary: Designer, developer, director (U.S. Open Data)
categories:
- designer
- developer
- mac
- suit
- writer
credits:
  name: David Kidd
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm [Waldo Jaquith](https://waldo.jaquith.org/ "Waldo's website."), and I make data be more available to the world at [U.S. Open Data](https://usopendata.org/ "A group promoting open source U.S. goverment data sets."), as a [Shuttleworth Foundation](https://www.shuttleworthfoundation.org/ "A foundation helping to fund projects for social change.") fellow. I'm a software developer, designer, and writer. My work is largely about helping governments work more effectively with each other and with the private sector, by getting them to make their data holdings public. I live in Charlottesville, Virginia with my wife, young son, and a small menagerie of animals.

#### What hardware do you use?

Most of my work is done on a late 2013 [13” Retina MacBook Pro][macbook-pro] (late 2013 model) hooked up to a basic 24” Dell LCD. I also maintain a home office where I use a [27” Retina iMac][imac] (which I just bought recently, upgrading from a 2009 iMac), with 32 GB of RAM and a 256 GB SSD. On both I use an [Apple keyboard][keyboard] and mouse, plus an [Apple trackpad][magic-trackpad] on the iMac. I also manage to get a surprising amount of work done on my [iPhone 6][iphone-6].

My home file server is a [Synology DiskStation DS414][ds414], with 8 TB of storage. (Well, 4 TB. The other 4 TB is to back up the first 4 TB.) I use a [1 TB Western Digital Passport drive][my-passport-ultra] to maintain an offsite backup of my most important data.

I love my [ScanSnap S1300i][scansnap-s1300i] document scanner, which I use to digitize any paper that comes into the house, so that I can toss the paper but keep the information. I'm also using it to gradually scan in the thousands of physical photos that I've taken over the years.

All of this is powered with an array of 14 280-watt SolarWorld Sunmodule solar panels, and a corresponding number of [Enphase M250 microinverters][m250]. I track my home's power generation and consumption with a [Raspberry Pi 2][raspberry-pi-2], and I use that to adjust my [Nest][] thermostat, basically using my house's temperature as a huge battery.

My everyday carry includes a [Uniball Vision Fine pen][vision-fine-0.7], a [Spyderco Native 5][native-5], a [YubiKey 4][yubikey], and a [PowerGen 5200mAh USB battery pack][handigen], in a [Jandd Gabriel messenger bag][gabriel] that I bought in 1995 for which they unwisely included a lifetime warranty.

#### And what software?

My core desktop software is [Chrome][], [iTerm2][], [Transmit][], [Tweetbot][], [GitHub Desktop][github-mac], [MacDown][], [IRCCloud][], and [Slack][], all of which I run basically at all times. I manage all of my passwords in [1Password][]. Unable to stomach continuing to pay Adobe for [Photoshop][] upgrades, I've switched to [Pixelmator][] for image editing.

I was a [BBEdit][] guy for years and years, but that's kind of stagnated, so I'm trying [Sublime Text][sublime-text] on my laptop while keeping BBEdit on my desktop. There's no tool more central to my work than my code editor, and the switch isn't going well.

For video processing - which I do a lot of, to open legislative video - I use [RipIt][] and [MPEG Streamclip][mpeg-streamclip].

For office applications, I vacillate between using [Pages][] and [Numbers][] on the desktop, and just using [Google Docs][google-docs].

I run both [ImageAlpha][] and [ImageOptim][] easily a dozen times a day. I don't let an leave my computer - whether to share in Slack, post to Twitter, or as a design element on a website - without optimizing it.

For a long time I managed photos in [Aperture][], but since that was EOLed, I've decided to trust Apple, and jumped to their new [Photos][] app. Happily, that coincided with me having a kid and no longer having the time to shoot RAW and fiddle with each photo.

I manage my life in [Calendar][ical], [Reminders][], and [iMessage][].

For security while traveling, I use [TunnelBlick][] to connect to [OpenVPN][], running on an [EC2][] instance.

On my servers, I lean heavily on [PHP][], [Python][], [Apache][], [MySQL][], [SQLite][], and [Elasticsearch][]. I'm a big fan of [mod_pagespeed][], which magically optimizes my websites' assets. [Pushover][] has been great for allowing my software to tell me when something unexpected or important has happened.

#### What would be your dream setup?

I have sporadic need for substantial computing power, and it sure would be nice to be able to lease computing power on the fly for automatic offloading of RAM or processor-intensive tasks from my personal computer, as a native function of the OS. A new office chair would be great - mine is falling apart. I'd like to have twice as much desk space at home, so I'd have project space. Gigabit at home and work would be awfully nice, too.