---
title: Emily Haasch
summary: Artist, designer
categories:
- artist
- designer
- mac
---

### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm foremost a human, secondly [an artist](https://www.instagram.com/emhaasch/ "Emily's Instagram account.") and finally [a designer](http://www.emilyhaasch.com/ "Emily's website."). I was born & raised in Chicago, made a stopover in San Francisco, and am now residing in NYC.

I led design at Cards Against Humanity, reimagined spaces for digital art at Electric Objects, and figured out new technologies at ustwo. I create editorial illustrations for a number of publications, including the New Yorker, Polygon, GOOD Magazine, Intercom, and Grand Circus.

I also raise [marimos](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marimo "The Wikipedia entry on Marimos.") and do a lot of walking in my spare time.

### What hardware do you use?

I tend to travel a lot, so everything has to be mobile to some extent.

I work on a [13" Apple Retina MacBook Pro][macbook-pro], from 2015. I hate trackpads and _especially_ hate Apple's mice, so I use a black [Logitech M325][m325] mouse instead. It's perfect for smallish hands, portable, and fairly indestructible.

I've had [the same phone][iphone-5] for the past 5 years, and just recently replaced it with... [almost the same phone][iphone-se]. I pair it with a reliable [Anker PowerCore 10000mAh external battery][powercore-10000] and [Panasonic ErgoFit headphones][rp-tcm125], of which have a great sonic range for the price. Tossed in a cheap but durable backpack that I like to customize with [my friends' artwork](http://www.ryantroyford.bigcartel.com/product/see-you-out-there "Ryan Troyford's traveller patch."), they've traveled around the world with me in more airports than I can count.

When in the office, I sometimes work from an [Apple Cinema Display][cinema-display], and use various devices (Apple Watch, Android phones, iPhones, Android Wear, VR headsets, etc.) to test with, depending on the project. For my collages, I scan them via a [CanoScan LiDE 120][canoscan-lide-120]. At home, I rely on a [Motorola SBG6580 modem / router][sbg6580] & [TP-Link AV500 extender][av500] to extract the life-giving forces of Internet out of my apartment's Internet-Hole.

Finally, when stressed about design projects, I burn sage.

### And what software?

I like to keep things basic, and don't believe in superfluous or crazy-expensive software setups unless necessary. That having said, my work setups can flex based on employer or client, but here's a general overview.

On the personal end, I use [LastPass][] as a password manager in addition to standard best practices. I'm also a heavy [Tweetbot][], [iMessage][], and [Slack][] user. I listen to podcasts at night via [Overcast][overcast-ios].

I create product design work primarily in [Sketch][], with iconography and general vector illustration in [Adobe Illustrator][illustrator]. Animation and prototyping are variable based on context / platform, but I've used [Flinto][], [Marvel][], and others in the past and have liked them well enough. Professionally, a lot of my working files are stored and shared via [Google Drive][google-drive]. Within a technical context, I write code in [Atom][], push it to repos via the command line, and QA builds via [HockeyApp][]. Fonts are accessed through [FontExplorer][fontexplorer-x] and certain projects are managed via [Trello][].

For my practice as an artist, it's all IRL / analog. Pieces are usually touched up in [Photoshop][] afterwards to remove dust and adjust color grading for a digital screen. Work is stored via [Dropbox][]. I host and promote most of my work via [Instagram][]. I've been getting back into using [Are.na][] for exploration and documenting taste. Finally, I record invoices and track cash flow via [Harvest][].

### What would be your dream setup?

My dream setup would be to have both a quiet studio overlooking a foggy beach, and a more responsible American president.