---
title: Jamie Sanchez
summary: Creative consultant, developer (Bit Bash, AnimeChicago)
categories:
- community
- designer
- developer
- mac
- web
---

### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm [Jamie Sanchez](https://jamiesanchez.com/ "Jamie's website."), a full-time creative consultant. My bread and butter is [custom WordPress development](https://curiouser.design/ "Jamie's WordPress designer site.") for clients but I frequently work on branding, event planning, and community building projects for Chicago-based nerds and organizations.

My biggest personal project is [Bit Bash](http://bitbashchicago.com/ "A game and art festival in Chicago."), an interactive art festival celebrating games with artistic intent, local cooperative games, and unique installations like VR or custom controllers you'd only find in a festival or museum setting.

My other main project is [AnimeChicago](https://animechicago.com/ "A non-profit anime club in Chicago."), a non-profit anime club catering to young professionals in their 20s and 30s who deep-dive into the academic side of the medium.

Lastly, I'm also a WordPress Mentor for [Skillcrush](https://skillcrush.com/ "A site that helps teach people to become developers.") where I help new developers launch their freelance businesses or make drastic career changes to pursue a more fulfilling life.

### What hardware do you use?

I'm using a maxed-out 2009 [MacBook Pro][macbook-pro] that desperately needs replacement. I've loaded this machine with 8GB sticks of RAM, upgraded to a blazing fast SSD, and have even swapped the little $6 feet when they started chipping off. It's on its second battery and the "Service Battery" notice came back a few months ago. I'm a firm believer that technology shouldn't mirror fast fashion, and that minimalism includes caring for your tech items long term.

My productivity increases with dual monitors, so I'm using a 27 inch LG at home and a hand-me-down [Wacom Cintiq 20][cintiq] with busted pen input at my co-working desk. [Magic Mouse][magic-mouse], Bluetooth [keyboard][], and headphones are a must for desk mode.

### And what software?

Most of my design time is spent in [Illustrator][] and [Sketch][] since I work on both print and web projects frequently. [Craft][] does a good job filling in the gaps between Sketch's native tools. [Photoshop][] is still my BFF photo editing suite. I also do some digital illustration on the side but have been waffling between [SketchBook][sketchbook-pro], [Clip Studio][clip-studio-paint], and [Krita][]. Utilities like [Noun Project][the-noun-project], [RightFont][], [LittleIpsum][], and [Sip][] make the day a little easier.

[WordPress][] websites are a strange blend between admin GUI and text editing. I spend hours each day in [Sublime Text][sublime-text] and have really customized the environment, but the allure of [Visual Studio Code][visual-studio-code] is growing strong. I've used dozens of file transfer tools but [Transmit][] really takes the cake. [Chrome][] has been my go-to testing tool but my [BrowserStack][] subscription has been absolutely invaluable for debugging and launching websites as a solo developer. Command line is fine but visual tools like [CodeKit][] and [Patterns][] really help dispel some cognitive load.

As for productivity software... I have _opinions_. [OmniFocus][] is a great tool but leaves a lot to be desired for long-term planning, so some Google Sheet worksheets fill in those gaps. For collaboration needs, [Slack][], [Dropbox][], and [Google Docs][google-docs] have worked perfectly. [1Password][], [Focus][focus.2], [Calendly][], [Harvest][], [YNAB][], and [Quickbooks Self-Employed][quickbooks-self-employed] have paid for themselves a thousand times over. I absolutely love [Spotify][] and [Numi][], which are just nice perks.

### What would be your dream setup?

Realistically: The latest 15" MBP all tricked out, three new 27" displays for all three desks, Cintiq 13HD tablet, and the best noise-cancelling headphones and dictation software suite on the market.

Fantasy land: A tablet like the [iPad Pro][ipad-pro], with high-end pen sensitivity like a Cintiq, maxed out like a pro-gamer tower, that could function as my primary machine and dock into any station imaginable. Just output to a desk setup with monitor/mouse/keyboard setup, plug right into a VR setup, stream to a media system, or transform right into a karaoke suite.

Someday, I'm sure!