---
title: Everest Pipkin
summary: Artist, developer
categories:
- artist
- developer
- game
- mac
- web
---

### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm [Everest Pipkin](http://everest-pipkin.com "Everest's website."), I make generative books, bots, games, and software. I also make drawings on paper, and collaborative work under the label [Withering Systems](http://withering.systems/ "Everest's collaborative group"). I'm currently in Pittsburgh, PA, at Carnegie Mellon University. Right now, I'm thinking a lot about the commodification of commons on the internet.

### What hardware do you use?

A [MacBook Pro][macbook-pro], fairly close to the start of its life. A Brother laser printer and a Star receipt printer. I keep notes in the Mac OS [Stickies app][stickies] (some hundreds of thousands of words at this point) and I keep a physical notebook of no particular brand which fills up roughly every 8 months and gets placed on a shelf with the others.

(I'm also currently borrowing an [AxiDraw pen plotter][axidraw], which has changed my life!)

I generally travel as much as I can, so much of my work becomes centered on the screen or is pocket-sized. I'm still getting used to having a studio where I can gather equipment. It is a luxury~

### And what software?

Almost entirely just [JavaScript][]/[Node.js][node.js]. I sometimes end up using various JS frameworks, or [Unity][], but I tend to regret it - right now it is easier to just roll my own systems than deal with confusing documentation or other people's solutions. I'm looking forward to having a project that needs a level of system management beyond my capacities, though!

### What would be your dream setup?

Um, well, I'd really like more toys to be honest. I'd love to have a good color printer or a risograph. I'd die for a plotter of my very own. I think a touchscreen or Wacom tablet would change my process in possibly-interesting ways. I'm interested in drones. I love arches paper and copic pens. I miss living with a piano.

(I'd really like all of these things in house in a desert.)