---
title: Dana Schwartz
summary: Entertainment writer (The Observer)
categories:
- mac
- writer
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

Hi! I'm [Dana Schwartz](http://www.danaschwartzdotcom.com/ "Dana's website.") and I'm an entertainment writer at the Observer. I also wrote a Young Adult novel that's coming out in May called [_AND WE'RE OFF_](http://www.penguinrandomhouse.com/books/540902/and-were-off-by-dana-schwartz/9780448493817/ "Dana's novel."), and I'm writing a memoir that's going to come out... sometime after I finish writing it. 

#### What hardware do you use?

I'm constantly on my [iPhone 6][iphone-6]. I write on a 2016 [MacBook Air][macbook-air] that I had to buy because I dropped my previous laptop in my eagerness to get to the door for my Seamless delivery and cracked the screen. Internet distraction is a huge problem for me, and so I also invested in a [Freewrite][] - a typewriter that saves your work and uploads it directly to the cloud. I find I use it a lot for diary writing and idea generating. I'm terrible at maintaining physical journals even though I love writing by hand. I tend to use whichever one of the millions I've bought is nearest to me at the moment, and I always lose them before they're filled up.

My physical planner is essential though - I'm not an [iCal][] person. I need my to-do list and schedules on paper, written in front of me, or I'll never remember to do anything.

#### And what software?

The [Twitter app][twitter-ios]: constantly, obsessively, to my detriment. I used to write in [Microsoft Word][word], but when I got the new computer I didn't want to buy it again, and so I've been writing in [Google Docs][google-docs]. At work, we're putting our articles up through [Wordpress][]. I've taken classes on [Adobe Premiere][premiere] for editing videos, but honestly when I'm doing something for work I usually fall back on my middle school instincts and use [iMovie][] because it's so much quicker for me. 

#### What would be your dream setup?

A giant, very neat, gorgeous desk with fresh flowers and a notebook and a black pen that you don't have to press too hard and doesn't bleed through the page. And a laptop that's not connected to the internet. And my phone very far away, in the other room, which will only ding if someone _really_ cool texts me. And a nice view. 