---
title: Lex Gill
summary: Research fellow (Citizen Lab), legal researcher (CCLA)
categories:
- mac
- researcher
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

Hello! I'm a research fellow at the [Citizen Lab](https://citizenlab.ca/ "A research lab inside the University of Toronto.") and a legal researcher at the [Canadian Civil Liberties Association](https://ccla.org/ "A Canadian group fighting for civil liberties and human rights."). Between these two roles I work on all kinds of stuff -- from encryption policy and national security to policing, prisons and borders. My favourite legal problems are messy, high-stakes, and interdisciplinary. 

Both organizations are based in Toronto, but I mostly live and work in Montreal. It's still a little gritty, and intensely creative -- queer and quirky and brave. No matter how much I travel, being a Montrealer is a big part of my setup. 

#### What hardware do you use?

I have a early 2016 [12" MacBook][macbook.2] (space grey!) and an [iPhone 6S][iphone-6s] (gold!).

I don't carry confidential data or devices internationally, so instead of the glorious new MacBook, I brought a (wiped) 2013 [MacBook Air][macbook-air] on a recent trip to Tokyo. That machine is on its last legs -- it's about 50% spinning beach ball and keys are starting to fall out of the board like baby teeth -- which means I'm in the market for a new travel Chromebook. 

I can't find an e-reader I like, so I do a lot of long-form reading on this really cool technology called paper which is made from mashed up trees. I also still do a surprising amount of writing and drawing by hand -- I'm partial to Rhodia dot pads and recently fell in love with the feel of [these double-ended pens][double-ended-hybrid-hexagonal-pen] from MUJI. I was also gifted a Space Pen last year from my partner, which -- if you've ever had a pen explode on a plane, you'll know -- is a godsend for travel.

I have an [Apple Watch 2][apple-watch-series-2], which I use pretty much exclusively as a fitness tracker (I'd never get anything done if I enabled other notifications). I get everywhere on a [cheap and reliable fixed gear bike][draft-lite] and have a set of [rainbow Monkeylectric lights][m204] which are an endless source of joy for small children and drunk local partygoers alike.

#### And what software?

I'm a [Todoist][] power user. It's beautiful, reliable, and intuitive -- just about everything I plan to do or want to remember gets catalogued there somehow. I'm not a very good multi-tasker ([apparently few people are](http://nymag.com/scienceofus/article/high-intensity-interval-training-work-productivity-breaks.html "A NYMag article about managing time.")) so it helps free up my working memory. 

My communications setup sometimes feels a little bit like [this XKCD comic](https://xkcd.com/1810/ "An XKCD comic about chat systems."). Privacy and security are important to me -- both because of the nature of my work and because of my values -- but it can be tricky getting everyone you love on the same channel. I've pared it down in recent months, but I still use some combination of [Signal][], [Semaphor][], [Tor Messenger][tor-messenger] (beta), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/lex_is "Lex's Twitter account.") and [Slack][] every day. I like [Jitsi][] for videoconferencing.

A lot of my day-to-day work involves quiet writing and legal research, but I can't seem to find a lightweight text editor I love. I spent my law school days using [an idiosyncratic markup system][lawtex] with a custom script to convert notes written in [Sublime Text][sublime-text] into billion-page [LaTeX][] documents. I've since graduated to [Bear][], which is a much more elegant solution (and lets you integrate sketches!). I still use Sublime sometimes, and I'm currently taking [Standard Notes][standard-notes] for a test run.

I support [the Tor Project][tor], and use Tor for as much of my browsing as I reasonably can. 

#### What would be your dream setup?

I have almost superstitious ideas about how spaces change the way we think and work. I think being in the right environment can encourage people to be their best selves. 

So for deep focus? A large desk in the wilderness -- like something straight out of the Instagram dreamscapes of rich bohemian glampers. No clocks, endless coffee, soft grey skies and a big stack of books. 

For collaborative work, I wish for -- and this, I'm convinced, is the dream of every remote worker -- an enormous kitchen table in a loft full of plants. A bucket at the door where people leave their phones and grab a pair of slippers. Natural light and open windows on cool, sunny autumn days. A fridge full of homemade snacks. All of the people I work with in one place. 

Finally, most people don't realize that a lot of important legal sources are totally inaccessible: either behind (extremely expensive!) paywalls or tucked away in university libraries and courthouses. I'm lucky to have access to these kinds of sources, but projects like the [Caselaw Access Project](http://lil.law.harvard.edu/projects/caselaw-access-project/ "A Harvard project providing online access to US case law.") and [CanLII](https://www.canlii.org/en "An institute providing online access to Canadian case law.") are working to fix this problem for everyone. The law belongs to all of us -- in my dream setup, it would be free for all of us too.