---
title: Jasmine Greenaway
summary: Developer, GitHub Editor Tools
categories:
- developer
- mac
- software
- windows
---

### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm [Jasmine Greenaway](http://jasminegreenaway.com/ "Jasmine's website."), an [engineer at GitHub](https://github.com/paladique "Jasmine's GitHub account.") on the Editor Tools team. We take your [GitHub][] workflow in the browser to your favorite text editor or IDE. Our current projects are [GitHub for Visual Studio][github-for-visual-studio] and [GitHub for Unity][github-for-unity]. I'm also adjunct faculty at [LaGuardia Community College](http://www.laguardia.edu/home/Default.aspx "A community college in New York."), where I currently teach Introduction to Web Development and/or Dynamic Web Design. Outside of work, I co-organize [BrooklynJS](http://brooklynjs.com/ "A JavaScript meetup in Brooklyn.").

### What hardware do you use?

I work mostly in a Windows environment, so my main work machine is a [Dell XPS 15][xps-15]. Some days I'll work with my [MacBook Pro][macbook-pro]. I use my [iPad Pro][ipad-pro] for smaller tasks like answering emails, planning tasks, and scheduling. I also use [Tile][] to keep track of important things I own, like my computer, keys and wallet.

I also own a pretty pink desktop computer named Cecelia that I normally use for gaming, but sometimes to get some work done. She's got [a GTX 660 graphics card][geforce-gtx-660], [ASUS Z97-A motherboard][z97-a], [Intel i5-4690K][core-i5-4690k], [Razer BlackWidow keyboard][blackwidow-chroma], and [a Razer DeathAdder mouse][deathadder-chroma].

### And what software?

I write [C#][c-sharp] all day, so I spend most of my time in [Visual Studio][visual-studio], building and running my code. I started using Visual Studio without any extensions or enhancements, and never bothered with trying them out in the 6 years I've been using it, so I don't have anything like [ReSharper][] installed. I'll use [Atom][] when I'm working with [Markdown][] or when live coding in front of my students. I was a fan of Atom before GitHub! When I need to quickly build a website outside of Visual Studio, I'll use Yeoman. For command line I use [Powershell on Windows][windows-powershell] and [Bash][] on Mac.

I use [Slack][] to communicate with coworkers and friends, [Google Inbox][google-inbox] for mail, [Google Calendar][google-calendar] to view and organize my day, and [Google Slides][google-slides] for all my presentations. I use the mobile app versions of all of these.

### What would be your dream setup?

In terms of hardware and software, I wouldn't change a thing in my current setup. I'm very content. The only thing I wish I had is my own office space. I have this awesome Gundam collection that I want to set up on own desk; they've been couped up in a box for a while!
