---
title: Jeremy Wortsman
summary: Founder of The Jacky Winter Group
categories:
- designer
- mac
credits:
  name: Tatanja Ross
---

### Who are you, and what do you do?

My name is Jeremy Wortsman and I am the founder and managing director of [The Jacky Winter Group](http://www.jackywinter.com/ "A production agency in Melbourne and NYC."), a creative representation and production agency with offices in Melbourne and New York City. Our artists complete thousands of commissions a year for some of the world's leading brands and businesses and we just celebrated our ten-year anniversary!

I also manage [Lamington Drive](http://lamingtondrive.com/ "A online store, and a gallery space in Melbourne."), our bricks-and-mortar gallery space, and most recently, our luxury guesthouse and artist residency, [Jacky Winter Gardens](http://jackywintergardens.com/ "An artist residency in Victoria.") in the Dandenong Ranges. I am also the host of the Melbourne chapter of [CreativeMornings](https://creativemornings.com/ "A community hosting creative morning talks.") and a founding member of [The Contemplary](http://thecontemplary.org/ "A not-for-profit meditation organisation.").

In a previous life, I was the co-founder of the design practice, [Chase & Galley](http://www.chaseandgalley.com/ "A former design studio in Melbourne."), as well as one of the founding publishers and designers of [Is Not Magazine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Is_Not_Magazine "The Wikipedia entry for Is Not Magazine."). There are some other things that I'm sure I'm forgetting, but reading the question all I can think of is those [Arnold Schwarzenegger prank calls](https://celebdial.com/c/arnold-schwarzenegger "An Arnold Schwarzenegger soundboard.") so I got distracted.

### What hardware do you use?

My 2017 [15" MacBook Pro][macbook-pro] drives pretty much everything along with my trusty [iPhone 7+][iphone-7-plus]. When seated at my workstation, I'm running a 29" LG Ultra Widescreen Monitor. [Bose QC30's][quietcontrol-30] are my sanity maker, and are probably in my ears at least half the day. I use an [Anker Vertical Mouse][2.4g-wireless-vertical-ergonomic-mouse] and [Apple wireless keyboard][keyboard]. All our workstations are also fitted with [12 South Fermata][fermata] headphone stands and [HiRise 2][hirise-2] stands, as we use our mobiles for all telecommunications via [Bria][]. We use Synology units for local file access, with their great cloud sync feature so we can keep portfolios updated via [Dropbox][]. All our desks are standing desks - some of them manual [WorkFit-D units from Ergotron][workfit-d], and some electronic ones from IKEA - all with custom tops. We also have a treadmill desk (of course) from Lifespan, which we love. 

In our Collingwood office we also run a pretty robust production space, including a dedicated VR room running a [HTC Vive][vive] off an [Alienware 15][alienware-15]. That room adjoins our printing operation, New Blank Document, which runs a 44" [Epson Stylus Pro 9900][stylus-pro-9900], a Graphtec FC8600 plotter and cutter, plus an [Riso A2][a2] machine - the only one of its kind in Australia. We also run Ring products for our doorbell and entryway, which have been total lifesavers, except when we actually got burgled when we had to recharge one. Whoops! 

Our podcast setup is also key, where we run a [Focusrite 18i8][scarlett-18i8], and three [Shure BETA 87a's][beta-87a] all running from an [iMac][]. 

We also just started a digital life drawing event in our gallery called Looking Glass, which provides all participants with [12.9" iPad Pros][ipad-pro], along with [Apple Pencils][pencil], which we also use for our in-agency marketing meetings.

I like hardware.

### And what software?

[Google Apps][google-apps], [Slack][], Dropbox, [Adobe Creative Cloud][creative-cloud], [1Password][] and [Xero][] run all the day to day stuff, nothing new there. [Basecamp][] runs most of our projects, and it's all hooked up to a custom [Filemaker Pro][filemaker-pro] setup which we have been delicately maintaining and developing like a bonsai for the last ten years. We also have a suite of custom-made web apps that we use - some built into our [WordPress][] setup, some totally bespoke. It's all held together with various APIs and plugins so that everything talks to each other, which is really nifty.

Our podcast is recorded with [Zencastr][], which is amazing for connecting our New York and Melbourne Offices, using [Zoom][zoom.2] for video meetings. We use [Envoy][] at our reception desk to announce visitors and handle couriers. 

[Wunderlist][] is our to-do manager for everything internal. It's so fast and just works. We manage our internal wiki and documentation in [Evernote][]. We're also joining the cult of [Airtable][] and [Dropbox Paper][dropbox-paper] to phase out some Google products. Sonos handles all our music, with [Spotify][] for the shared playlists (Like [Slate's Summer Strut!](http://www.slate.com/articles/podcasts/culturegabfest/2017/07/summer_strut_2017_and_justin_bieber_vs_ed_sheeran_for_song_of_the_summer.html "A Slate article about their summer playlist.")) and discovery, with [Apple Music][apple-music] for an actual library. [Overcast][overcast-ios] on iOS for podcasts, where I listen to everything at 2x.

[Droplr][] is indispensable for screenshots and markup. I also couldn't live without [Keyboard Maestro][keyboard-maestro] for recording macros, and [TextExpander][] as well. [The Great Suspender][the-great-suspender] is the one [Chrome][] plugin that has also been the best thing I have ever run to improve laptop performance and speed, and I cannot recommend it highly enough, along with the [Gboard iOS keyboard][gboard-ios] for swipe input. 

I live and die by my RSS feeds via [Newsblur][].

Reading through all this, I realise I haven't even scratched the surface of all the actual hardware and software we use on a daily basis, and I think I may have an actual problem.

Of course, this is why I endorse the [Insight Timer][insight-timer-ios] app for 2x 30 minute meditation sessions per day, so I can try to forget about said hardware and software.

### What would be your dream setup?

Honestly, I think it's pretty close to actually being achieved! Typing is a bit of a bummer sometimes. Something that would allow me to type my thoughts would be awesome, but in the meantime voice recognition will have to do, so I'm really excited for it to actually work properly someday. 32GB of RAM in an Apple laptop wouldn't be too much to ask either, maybe? One can dream...