---
title: Daniel Kibblesmith
summary: Writer (The Late Show With Stephen Colbert)
categories:
- mac
- writer
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

Daniel Kibblesmith, writer for The Late Show With Stephen Colbert, as well as comics writer (Valiant Comics, Heavy Metal, Various), and author/co-author of the humor books _Santa's Husband_ and _How To Win At Everything_.

#### What hardware do you use?

At work: [MacBook Air][macbook-air]. At home: Smaller Macbook Air.

#### And what software?

For work we use [Scripto][], a collaborative realtime script and teleprompter software (developed by my friend Rob Dubbin, company co-founded by Stephen Colbert), also currently in use at The Daily Show with Trevor Noah, Last Week Tonight with John Oliver, Full Frontal with Samantha Bee, The President Show, and others.

For comics, I write primarily in [Google Docs][google-docs] for saving, sharing, and storage convenience, although much of it starts by hand, usually in [Pilot Precise V5 pens][precise-v5], currently in a crazy orange hardbound notebook I got as a Christmas gift from my parents (I think it's the Mead Cambridge Casebound Notebook No. 07102, but again, in orange for some reason). I also have a Walgreens in-house brand spiral memo pad I carry in my back pocket, after destroying two Moleskin knockoffs by slowly curving them to conform to the shape of my butt.

#### What would be your dream setup?

I think this is it, I'm good. But I did stay in a hotel over my honeymoon where they put a little tackle-box of coffee and scones outside your door before you woke up, so if I could add anything at this point, it'd be that.