---
title: Laura DeGroot
summary: Web developer, designer, poet
categories:
- designer
- developer
- mac
- poet
- web
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm [Laura DeGroot](http://laurafacts.info/ "Laura's website."). I'm a web developer, designer, thing-maker, and poet. I work at [Format][] as a front end developer. I like making fun art about space and nature. 

#### What hardware do you use?

For design and web development I use a [2014 15" MacBook Pro][macbook-pro]. When I'm using that computer as a TV, I usually write or look at Twitter with my [2014 11" MacBook Air][macbook-air]. My phone is an [iPhone 6][iphone-6]. I recently traded a stranger 6 cans of beer in exchange for a [Kindle][] - I've been reading way more than ever as a result! I just finished reading _The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch_ by Philip K. Dick.

#### And what software?

For development I use [Atom][] to edit text, [Hyper][] for the command line, and [Slack][] integrations for deploys.

For design I use [Sketch][]. It's a weird choice for creating anything that's going to be printed, but I have a licence from work and I've learned it the most recently! It works for me, I usually just make sure everything is tens of thousands of pixels in size before I try to have it printed - so far so good! To edit photos I use [Affinity Photo][affinity-photo] - it's a great bit of software and the price works for me as someone who only edits images once in a while.

My favourite writing app is [OmmWriter][]. It takes over your screen to minimize distractions, and has lots of cute features like a choice of background, music, and even keypress sound effects. I love the sound effect that makes every keypress sound like a rain drop, it motivates me to keep typing! When inspiration comes randomly, the Notes app on [OS X][notes] and [iOS][notes-ios] is always in use.

#### What would be your dream setup?

I'm pretty happy with what I have! I've been thinking about finding a scanner so I can import some drawings and handwriting into Sketch. I don't have an external monitor at home, and that's something I'd like to change. Overall though, I'd enjoy less tech in my life - especially in my free time. Unfortunately it's very useful for accomplishing my creative goals :)