---
title: James Turnbull
summary: Engineer, author, CTO (Empatico)
categories:
- developer
- mac
- web
---

### Who are you, and what do you do?

Hi! I'm James. I am an engineer and author. I love building products and teams.

I work as CTO at [Empatico][], a not-for-profit educational technology company. We connect elementary (primary) age students from different backgrounds and geographies with a focus on developing their curiosity about others and their communication and empathy skills.

Prior to that, I was the CTO at [Kickstarter][], the VP of Engineering at [Venmo][], and was an early employee at both [Docker][] and [Puppet][]. I've also built product and run teams in finance, telecommunications, biotech, gaming and technology companies.

I write [technical books](https://turnbull.press/ "James' book publishing company.") about topics in engineering, operations, and security. I've written ten books, including [The Docker Book](https://dockerbook.com/ "James' Docker book.") and [The Terraform Book](https://terraformbook.com/ "James' Terraform book.").

I'm originally from Melbourne in Australia but my partner and I have been living in the United States, most recently New York City, for a number of years now. I am deeply in love with the city. I love the subway, the noise, the people, and even the rats and the smell of stale garbage. :)

### What hardware do you use?

Day-to-day I use a [2016 Macbook Pro][macbook-pro] with Touch Bar and my phone is a [Google Pixel XL 5.5][pixel-xl].

I do a little bit of gaming and I have a Windows-based Puget Systems PC that basically just runs [Steam][].

I read a lot and I am a huge fan of the Kindle as an e-reader. I have owned one of pretty much every Kindle model released and currently use a [Kindle Oasis][kindle-oasis]. The battery life makes it great for travel and the lighting and crispness of the screen make reading in low light - planes, bars, cafes, badly lit hotel rooms - super easy.

### And what software?

My life runs out of a combination of [G Suite][google-apps], [Postbox][], [Remember The Milk][remember-the-milk], [1Password][], and [Evernote][].

I have multiple [Chrome][] profiles for different purposes and usually have way too many tabs open at a time.

I also use way far too many communications tools. Seemingly like everyone in tech, I belong to more [Slacks][slack] than I can manage, including being one of the owners of the [NYC Tech Slack](http://www.nyctechslack.com/ "A New York tech community Slack instance."). I use [Signal][], [Skype][], [Trillian][] to consolidate [GTalk][google-talk] and [Facebook][] (and checking my accounts in there I still have some Jabber accounts, [ICQ][], and [AIM][] too), and [AirText][]. I was an early [Twitter user](https://twitter.com/kartar "James' Twitter account.") - my first tweet was something like "Huh. I don't get it." - and it's a platform I both like and loath, depending on the day.

I write every day, both code and prose, and I've used a number of editors over the years. Recently, I've settled on [Visual Studio Code][visual-studio-code], Microsoft's open source code editor/IDE, which I use both as a text editor (my books are [Markdown][] with a bit of [LaTeX][] for higher level formatting and use [Pandoc][] to turn them into formatted artifacts) and an IDE. Code has got [vim][] bindings and excellent [Git][] integration which, since most of what I write lives in [GitHub](https://github.com/jamtur01 "James' GitHub account."), works out pretty well.

I can't escape the command line though and I use [iTerm2][] running [fish][] and will often jump into vim on the command line for quick edits. I also use [Weechat][] for the handful of remaining, fairly quiet, IRC channels I am still resident in.

### What would be your dream setup?

In my old house in Melbourne, I used the master bedroom as an office. I bought a huge antique dining table for the center of the room and every wall had bookshelves. That was amazing and I loved being able to move around the table, spread out books and papers, and work from different angles. I'd love to recreate that again.