---
title: Larry Crane
summary: Music producer (Jackpot!), Editor (Tape Op Magazine)
categories:
- editor
- music
- producer
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

My name is Larry Crane. I am the editor and founder (1996) of [Tape Op Magazine](http://tapeop.com/ "Larry's music recording magazine."); a mag about the art of recording music. I founded [Jackpot! Recording Studio](http://jackpotrecording.com/ "Larry's recording studio.") in 1997 and have produced, recorded, and mixed many artists, including Elliott Smith, Sleater-Kinney, The Go-Betweens, She & Him, and many more. I am also a musician, and have made records and toured as a band member. I also do instructional videos about music recording and mixing [for lynda.com](https://www.lynda.com/Larry-Crane/1873217-1.html "Larry's Lynda.com page."). 

#### What hardware do you use?

Many analog recording devices. A 32 channel R[upert Neve Designs 5088 console][5088] allows analog mixing and monitoring, even of digitally recorded music. I have three Otari tape decks set up for 24- and 16-track on 2-inch tape and a 1/4-inch deck for mixing to. I have BURL and Avid converters for taking the sound from analog to digital and back. A vintage EMT 140 plate reverb provides great effects. I have over 100 microphones of all types. 

#### And what software?

I use [Pro Tools 12 HD][pro-tools] as it’s the most commonly used in music recording. I am a huge fan of [iZotope RX5][rx] which allows detailed sound restoration and editing. The Universal Audio UAD platform hosts some of my favorite plug-ins for mixing use. 

#### What would be your dream setup?

After 20 years of running a commercial studio I feel I have surrounded myself with amazing tools. I wouldn’t mind a [Pro Tools HDX system][hdx] in order to cut out latency issues, but the cost is ridiculous and it also limits your system from running other DAW software, like [Logic][logic-pro]. Annoying. Buying and maintaining computer systems for a pro studio is frustrating and not very satisfying compared to buying and using quality analog gear, but it is how the marketplace works now.