---
title: Ashlyn Anstee
summary: Director, storyboard artist (Nickelodeon)
categories:
- animator
- director
- illustrator
- mac
- writer
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

My name is [Ashlyn Anstee](http://ashlyna.com/ "Ashlyn's website."), and I'm a storyboard artist and director, who moonlights as an author, illustrator, and GIF maker! I currently work for Nickelodeon doing writing and boards for an unannounced project. I have two picture books out for little ones that I wrote and illustrated (_No, No, Gnome!_ and _Are We There, Yeti?_), both with Simon & Schuster! I love writing and drawing and making things, in a lot of different forms.

#### What hardware do you use?

I swap it up a LOT. Just like with traditional media, my hardware changes depending on what I'm working on. I have a [Cintiq Companion][cintiq] that I use for storyboarding at home, and occasionally work off of an old [2011 MacBook Pro][macbook-pro] if I want to type up something & don't want to lug around my Companion. 

I keep my [iPad Pro][ipad-pro] in my purse, with the [Apple Pencil][apple-pencil] & [keyboard][] ready to write and draw anywhere. It's become my mobile workstation of choice.

#### And what software?

Depends on what I'm doing!

- iPad Sketching, I pretty much exclusively use [Procreate][procreate-ios].
- Storyboarding, I mainly use [Storyboard Pro][storyboard-pro], now! 
- Video/GIF editing, I use [After Effects][after-effects] (I know - editing a whole video in AE seems like madness, and it is. Whoops!)
- Illustration, I scan a lot of paintings, and prod at them in [Photoshop][]!

#### What would be your dream setup?

If I could have all the power of the Cintiq Companion on something the size of the iPad Pro, it would be my dream. Having to only run [iOS][] apps on such a great setup like the iPad is such a shame!