---
title: Olivia Wood
summary: Narrative editor, writer, developer (Failbetter Games)
layout: interview
categories:
- developer
- editor
- game
- windows
- writer
---

### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm [Olivia](https://twitter.com/babelfishwars "Olivia's Twitter account.") [Wood](http://www.oliviawood.co.uk/ "Olivia's website."). I'm a narrative editor, writer, content manager and game developer. 

As narrative editor at [Failbetter Games](http://www.failbettergames.com/ "An interactive narrative games studio."), I check continuity, ensure consistency with in-game lore, give feedback on whether the characters are convincing and the story is satisfying, and decide whether player choices feel meaningful. I act as line-editor and look at the phrasing. I kill darlings.

When writing - I get all this done to me, and it's painful but irritatingly useful. I work across all our games - so my fingerprints can be found on both [Fallen London][fallen-london] and [Sunless Sea][sunless-sea].

As content manager I loom over spreadsheets and [Trello][] boards - hunting deadlines and haunting writers.

Outside my work at Failbetter Games, I write. I wrote and designed [Lethophobia][] with [Jess Mersky](https://womentoringproject.co.uk/multidisciplinary-editor-fiction-and-non-fiction-writers/jess-mersky/ "Jess' WoMentoring Project page."). I've also published a [children's book](https://www.amazon.co.uk/Little-Bear-said-Grah-Olivia/dp/1515125092 "Olivia's children's book on Amazon.") - to throw my heartless exterior into sharp relief.

I also line-edit and proofread novels. I am a Science Fiction and Fantasy specialist, and have worked with authors ranging from Joe Abercrombie to Brandon Sanderson. I occasionally give talks on writing and the creative process, and give Masterclasses on 'being edited'. 

I drink cocktails; caipirinha, please. 

### What hardware do you use?

My home computer is a custom build gaming rig/workstation. I have two 26" monitors - I can't work on fewer. The mouse is [Logitech G502][g502] - I care more about having a nice mouse than a good keyboard. My keyboard is some old one with a leg gaffer-taped on. I'm still on [Windows 7][windows-7] because I'm not having any of the [Windows 10][windows-10] nonsense. At work the setup is similar, but less high powered. 

My laptop is an [Acer Aspire S7 392][aspire-s7-392]; often mistaken for an Apple as it's gorgeous. It's almost perfect - the only problem is the battery, which insta-dies somewhere around 15%. I've tried all the fixes and now just save regularly and work with increased urgency as it fades. I only use it when working from cafes. I love cafe working - I can focus better with background noise and people to avoid talking to - but it gets expensive. 

My [iPad mini][ipad-mini] is invaluable for talks. I also store articles and blogs on it to read while travelling. I've occasionally tried writing on it, but I cannot type using the Apple keyboard.

[Google Pixel][pixel] - I can't exist without a smartphone. 

I never go anywhere without a pen and notepad. I prefer to write on a computer - I type faster than I can write, but I can't brainstorm on a screen.

### And what software?

Failbetter Games uses [StoryNexus][] as our CMS. It's a powerful tool for interactive narrative, but it's not intuitive. We use [Google Docs][google-docs] and Spreadsheets to store and share story pitches, lore and game design. We mostly avoid email by using [Slack][]. The Narrative Director often works remotely, so - via [FaceTime][] - he lives in an iPad on my desk. For tracking work, I use Trello and Google Spreadsheets. 

I use [Classic Shell][classic-shell] and Start8 to undo the harm caused by [Windows 8][windows-8].

[Pocket][] means I can save articles for later. For days when it's hard to concentrate, I've a [Pomodoro timer][tomatotimer] pinned to my browser. It renders me terrifyingly efficient. A combination of [Dropbox][], [Google Drive][google-drive] and [1Password][] means I can work from pretty much anywhere with internet.

When working on novels, I use [Microsoft Word][word]. It's not perfect, but it's ubiquitous, and has a good combination of comments and change tracking. I'm still using the 2007 version. 

For fun game design stuff, I play with both [Twine][] and [ink][] (with the Inky Editor). 

### What would be your dream setup?

I'm pretty pleased with what I've got already. A gentle wish would be for a more powerful PC that I didn't have to dust. I'd like the same laptop, but with better gaming capabilities and a near-infinite battery. An actual dream setup? What I've already got, but ski-in ski-out - while still being based in London. Oh, and someone to yell at me to sit up straight. My posture's crap.