---
title: Peter Bourgon
summary: Distributed systems developer (Fastly)
categories:
- developer
- mac
- software
- web
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm a programmer, working mostly on backend and distributed systems, and mostly in the [Go programming language][go]. I've worked for [Bloomberg](https://bloomberg.com/ "A business news site."), [SoundCloud][], and [Weaveworks](https://www.weave.works/ "A software company.") in a variety of backend roles; I'm currently working for [Fastly][], on the data infrastructure team. I'm also reasonably prolific in the world of open-source. My current projects include [Go kit][go-kit], a toolkit for microservices; and [OK Log][ok-log], a distributed and coördination-free log management system.

#### What hardware do you use?

I mostly use a 3-year-old [MacBook Air][macbook-air] 13". I use it about equally in cafés and restaurants around Berlin, and connected to a monitor at home or in a coworking space. It strikes the right balance of low weight, usable screen size, great battery life, and sufficient horsepower. I also have a corporate-issued [MacBook Pro][macbook-pro] 13" that's permanently attached to my monitor at home: a sort of pseudo-desktop, with its own trackpad and keyboard. To be honest, I can't tell the difference.

I've got an [iPhone 6][iphone-6], which I think is a bit too large and fragile; at the next opportunity, I'd like to switch to an [SE][iphone-se]. At home in [my rather spartan flat in Mitte](https://peter.bourgon.org/berlin-flat/ "Photos of Peter's flat in Berlin."), I've got a [Time Capsule][time-capsule] and [Airport Express][airport-express] driving my wi-fi network; I appreciate how low-maintenance and high-performance they both have been. That's basically the extent of my technology. I've spent enough time configuring and troubleshooting to deeply appreciate not needing to do it anymore.

#### And what software?

I use a pretty bone-stock [Mac OS][mac-os-x]. For the vast majority of my day-to-day work, I use [iTerm][iterm2], [Visual Studio Code][visual-studio-code], and [Chrome][]. I also use [Homebrew][] and [Homebrew Cask][homebrew-cask] to manage my applications; [Dropbox][] to manage some of my files; [f.lux][] to let me sleep at night; [SizeUp][] to move my windows around; and [Spotify][] and SoundCloud to listen to music. Finally, I owe [DigitalOcean][] and [Terraform][] a debt of gratitude: they're my one-two punch when I need more compute power for testing, benchmarking, or demos.

#### What would be your dream setup?

I suppose I think of "my setup" very broadly. Not only the specific tools I'm using to do my work, but also the context in which I do it: the state of my mind, my emotions, the city in which I live, and the people surrounding me. I'm very happy with where I am, now. With technology that never really feels burdensome to use; with friends and colleagues who complement me and challenge me to be a better person; and in a city that is at once accessible and transcendental, humane and larger-than-life, full of cafés where I can spend half a day hacking without guilt, full of people who are inspiring, earnest, and engaged in the shared social contract of humanity.

So I don't have a dream setup, really. I just want to keep interrogating, adjusting, and re-assessing all of these things, in a constant introspective conversation.

With that said, I'd love to have a laptop that was a little lighter and thinner than my Air, with a better, higher-resolution screen. Am I just describing the new [MacBook][macbook.2]? Maybe. Shame about the single USB-C port, though.
