---
title: James Primate
summary: Musician, game developer, artist (Rain World)
categories:
- artist
- developer
- game
- musician
- windows
---

### Who are you, and what do you do?

Hello! My name is James Primate and I am a musician, video game developer and general internet basement art type person. For music, I'm mainly known for [Bright Primate](http://brightprimate.tk/ "James and Lydia's chiptune band."), a chiptune/vocal duo with my writing partner Lydia, as well as some assorted [video game soundtrack](https://jamesprimate.bandcamp.com/ "James' video game soundtracks on Bandcamp") work. As for game development stuff, in 2013 I co-founded a little company called Videocult with the lovely artist / programmer Joar Jakobsson for the purposes of making our current project (and white whale) [Rain World][rain-world], published by Adult Swim Games for [PS4][], PC, whatever.

### What hardware do you use?

Odds and ends mostly! For ye olde chiptune music band I use a collection of repurposed old [Nintendo Game Boys][game-boy] that have been customized for better sound quality and backlit for visibility on stage. I also use a number of [iPads][ipad-2] for performance, either for live-triggering samples or as touch based synthesizers, etc. Lydia uses a [TC Helicon VoiceLive Touch 2][voicelive-touch-2] for live vocal effects. Little of my music performance gear is what one would consider a proper musical instrument, though I do have a [microKORG XL keyboard][microkorg-xl] that I use for coding and the occasional melody line.

For game music and sound design it's a fairly boring array of low spec laptops, cheap MIDI keyboards and old iPads. I have an [17" Asus X750JB laptop][x750jb] that I use for the bulk of my audio production work, and it serves my purposes just fine. My go-to MIDI keyboard is a [Novation Launchkey 49][launchkey-49], which I have surprisingly strong feelings for considering it's a generic plastic thing you can find anywhere. I got that one specifically because it can work off of USB power, so doesn't need cables or batteries beyond just the USB input itself, AND it works perfectly when plugged into iPads, which is awesome and rare for something with so many keys!

Speaking of which, I use iPads and iPhones a ton these days for synths and audio waveform manipulation. There's so many strange and interesting iPad music creation apps and tools that are out there these days! When I was coming up it was all about weird VST programs that you'd find on some Russian guys website late at night, but now that culture seems to have all moved over to the [App Store][app-store], which is pretty awesome. I really need to get some new iPads though, as my 2s aren't doing so hot these days.

I have a collection of keyboards and hardware synths, but mostly they just collect dust I'm afraid! Same goes for the assorted guitars and such, though I do have a Korean-made Kraken brand 8-string electric that I've used for sound effects and the occasional lush chord or plinky plink where necessary. For field recording and random audio capture I use a [Zoom H4n Pro][h4n-pro] which is much nicer than I deserve considering I mostly use it to record the sound of dirt being crunched under a boot or various bits of metal junk being smacked together.

As for video game production (AKA my real job), up until a few days ago I had mostly been using the same old Asus X750JB laptop from above and had been feeling pretty smug about it. I'm kind of anti-gear, like "you don't need expensive equipment to make art!" sort of philosophy, so having a workman-like middle of the road laptop appeals to me on that level. But right now I'm working on the TV trailer for Rain World under a super tight deadline and the limited spec GPU and RAM of that workman-like laptop just couldn't handle dealing with the high quality 60fps 1920x1080 video capture or editing! It was awful! Would crash even just when scrubbing through the clips! So I ran out (literally), rushed to MicroCenter and picked up this horrible ugly monstrous abomination of a gaming laptop, and despite all my silly pretensions I totally absolutely love it. It's an [Asus Predator 17][predator-17] (lol) and it eats raw video for breakfast, spits out 4k renders like it's nothing. I'm hereby converted. It's got super tacky backlit red keys and is so obviously styled like Optimus Prime's codpiece, lmao. I feel like I need to go out and get a Call of Duty hoodie to complete my ascension.

### And what software?

For hardware chiptune on Game Boys I use a program called [Little Sound DJ][little-sound-dj] (LSDJ for short), which is a synthesizer and sequencer built into a Game Boy cartridge.

For general audio stuff and sound design I use [Cockos REAPER][reaper] for my music DAW (note: I believe this blog interviewed one of the creators of Reaper, right?). I really love Reaper. The workflow is so easy and unfussy, it's updated constantly with new features, plus it's vastly cheaper than anything remotely comparable. Because of how lightweight it is and the way you can nest tracks I usually have an entire soundtrack saved to one single project file! I even can drop in video to use as a guide to help tighten up SFX timings, or line-up music cues for videos, etc. REAPER does it all!

I use a ton of interesting iPad apps for music and sound design that I definitely want to shout out, as I feel like people never talk about app music tools. First and foremost is [Samplr][samplr-ios], which is a live waveform manipulation tool, so you can literally grab the waveform of the audio with your fingers and manipulate it, outputting all manner of wild sounds. I also love [Moog Music's Animoog synth][animoog-ios], which is a super deep motion synth that also has a similar touchscreen component where you can manipulate the envelops and timbres using all 10 fingers, and give some stunningly nuanced sounds when used cleverly. [Waldorf's Nave][nave-ios] is another synth app that gets used a ton and I couldn't do without. I have had a number of Waldorf's hardware synths, such as the [Blofeld][] and even an old [Microwave][] (real synth nerd stuff), and the Nave blows them away, IMHO.

With the iPad you have so much more processing power at your disposal compared to some purpose-built hardware keyboard, plus menu-diving is a breeze on the large iPad touchscreen compared to some cheesy half inch tall LCD display with buttons and a knob. I could probably go on for hours about music apps, but for the sake of some semblance of brevity I want to do a final shout-out to my favorite app, [e-l-s-a][e-l-s-a-ios], which is a super novel loop-based sample synth that makes some hauntingly beautiful sounds from rubbish audio capture, and that's what I love!

For gamedev my personal workflow is mostly on bespoke software, editors and devtools that Joar wrote specifically for Rain World, but beyond that it's fairly standard stuff: [Unity][], [Microsoft Visual Studio][visual-studio], [Adobe CS][creative-suite] stuff like [Photoshop][], [Illustrator][], [Director][], etc. For video work I'm using [Magix Vegas Pro 14][vegas-pro] (used to be called "Sony VEGAS").

### What would be your dream setup?

As mentioned before I'm pretty indifferent to gear so I don't have much in the way of dream equipment or aspirations in that direction (other than maybe a [Roli Seaboard][seaboard-rise] at some point), but being comfortable and quiet is key for me. I have pretty sensitive hearing, so I like to have some white noise in the background to cover up the assorted noises of the outside world. Also ideally this would be in a location where there is a good variety of food a walkable distance away; long enough to where one can think things over on the way but close enough to where it wouldn't interrupt the day to take a food break. Basics!