---
title: Brianna Howard
summary: Artist, tattooist
categories:
- artist
- tattooist
---

### Who are you, and what do you do?

My name is [Bri Howard](https://twitter.com/BriAppletree "Brianna's Twitter account."), 26, Michigan. I'm an artist and tattooist.

### What hardware do you use?

For tattooing I use rotary machines instead of coil machines. Rotaries are much lighter and ergonomic for my hands, so I can tattoo for longer and damage myself less. I use my computer and [iPad Pro][ipad-pro] for designs. I can be much more efficient and versatile with designs this way, though I still love good ol' paper and pencil.

### And what software?

I use [Photoshop][] sometimes, but mostly [Procreate][procreate-ios] on the iPad Pro with a [Pencil][]. Sometimes I use the [Amaziograph][amaziograph-ios] app for mandala designs. I love Procreate, it makes my designing process so much faster and more enjoyable. Plus if I need to make last minute changes, it's super easy. Don't like the color of the rose I drew for you? Swish of a finger, boom, now the red rose is blue. It's great!

### What would be your dream setup?

Big open space with a tattoo station right in the middle. Art all over the walls, a little office for my computer and drawing, another room for my fine art studio space. If I could have a few different rotartary machines and every color of ink I could ever need, I'd be set, tattooing wise!

Fine art things... all the oils, watercolors, and Prismacolor pencils, and some sexy brushes from Trekkell Art Supplies. Mmm.

Oh, and [micron pens][pigma-micron] falling from the sky would be great too!