---
title: Naomi Wu
summary: Maker, hardware hacker
categories:
- hacker
- linux
- mac
- windows
---

### Who are you, and what do you do?

My name is [Naomi Wu](https://twitter.com/realsexycyborg "Naomi's Twitter account."). I'm a maker, DIY and hardware enthusiast vlogging from Shenzhen, China.

### What hardware do you use?

3D Printer: [Flashforge Creator Pro][creator-pro] upgraded with a [Flexion extruder][dual-flexion] and PEI build surface.

Tools: Small drill press, circular miter saw, standard assortment of bench electronic and hand tools.

Computers: Whatever I can get second hand - right now a [MacBook Pro][macbook-pro], an ASUS netbook, an NEC ShieldPro and assorted random SBCs around the house for streaming audio, etc.

I actually use the little ASUS the most - it's old and cheap but fine for coding with a Cloud IDE, and I don't have to worry if I'm out working at a cafe and it gets stolen.

Cameras: Long-term loans or, like my computers, whatever's available used and in decent condition - [Panasonic GF1][lumix-dmc-gf1], [Nikon D5100][d5100], [DJI Osmo Mobile][osmo-mobile], [Hawkeye Firefly 8S][hawkeye-firefly-8s], [LG 360][360], [Zoom H1][h1] microphone.

My living room is my office and workshop, so I have a rolling workstation I can move out of the way to make more room.

### And what software?

[GIMP][], [Inkscape][], [LibreOffice][], [Tinkercad][], [OpenSCAD][], [Fusion 360][fusion-360], [Simplify3D][]. I go back and forth between [OS X][mac-os-x], Windows and [Linux Mint][linux-mint], with my preference being Mint. 

The [Grammarly][] plug-in has been an amazing help with all my online communication - English is my second language and I've never lived in an English speaking country, so it's challenging.

### What would be your dream setup?

Something like a loft space? A laser cutter, small CNC machine, 3D printers, sewing machine. I'll sleep on a cot, I don't care! I'd love to have an [Airbnb][] for makers and hardware developers coming to visit Shenzhen, a place with all the tools and equipment they need, on-site translation and ordering assistance to help them get anything they came here for. I'd use this to support classes teaching local women coding and fabrication skills.