---
title: Isaac Childres
summary: Owner and designer, Cephalofair Games
layout: interview
categories:
- designer
- game
- mac
- windows
---

### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm Isaac Childres, owner and designer of [Cephalofair Games](http://www.cephalofair.com/ "A board game publisher."), a board game publishing company that has put out two titles so far: [Gloomhaven][] and [Forge War][forge-war]. I spend pretty much my entire day on my computer, managing [Kickstarter][] customers and coordinating my business through email, as well as designing new games and new content for my existing games.

### What hardware do you use?

I mainly use my desktop computer, which I built about 3 or 4 years ago. I honestly couldn't tell you what the specs on it are, though. I just followed some guides published by Newegg and then pretty much forgot all that information. I sometimes use my wife's [iMac][] for [Skype][] calls, though, because my desktop fan is super-loud.

You might also call all my prototyping components for game designs "hardware" too. I mainly use surplus bits from my other games, but sometimes I scavenge other games parts, too. The most helpful prototyping object I have, though, is a 25"x25" cloth mat from Chessex with hexes on one side and squares on the other. It is very useful for creating game boards.

### And what software?

[Chrome][] is the number one program open on my computer always. I also use [Excel][] a lot to handle order spreadsheets. I do a lot of amateur graphic design work, as well, either when prototyping or when my real graphic designer doesn't have time to do something. I mainly use [InDesign][] for that, with some smattering of [Photoshop][], [GIMP][], or [Paint][] for image manipulation when needed. I also have a bad habit of doing rough graphic design work in [PowerPoint][].

### What would be your dream setup?

Honestly, I don't really think much about improving my setup. It is functional, which is all I need. My computer could probably do with some upgrades, I guess. I could use more memory and processing power.