---
title: Lam Thuy Vo
summary: Data reporter (BuzzFeed News)
categories:
- data
- mac
- reporter
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm [Lam Thuy Vo](http://lamthuyvo.com/ "Lam's website."). I'm a (data) reporter for BuzzFeed News where I specialize in covering the intersection of technology and society. I also teach (data journalism, coding for journalists) a fair amount and am currently writing a coding book.

#### What hardware do you use?

[MacBook Pro][macbook-pro] (though in rare cases when I still do videos and photography I shoot with a [Canon 5D Mark II][eos-5d-mark-ii] and a [Sony α7S][a7s]).

#### And what software?

I tell stories in various formats. Some software I use to do so are below. 

For data analysis:
[Python][] and [Jupyter][] notebooks.

For data visualizations:
Interactive: [JavaScript][], [d3][d3.js], [Highcharts][], Canvas and whatever other libraries any project may call upon.
Web dev: [Atom][] text editor.
Static: [Adobe Illustrator][illustrator].

For other visuals:
Gifs: [Gyazo][] for quick ones; [QuickTime][quicktime-pro] or [After Effects][after-effects], [Premiere][] and [Photoshop][] for more custom ones.

For photography:
[Adobe Bridge][bridge] and Photoshop, [Snapseed][snapseed-ios] on the go/mobile.

For videos:
Premiere, Adobe After Effects.

For writing: 
[Google Docs][google-docs] (on phone and on desktop).

#### What would be your dream setup?

Adjustable standing desk in a room with many windows with a climbing wall close enough so I can think and climb in between coding milestones :)