---
title: Taylor Quinn
summary: Twitch broadcaster, illustrator
categories:
- illustrator
- streamer
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

My name is Taylor Quinn, I'm a full-time online variety broadcaster and illustrator/emote artist on [Twitch](https://twitch.tv/SlyTQ "Taylor's Twitch account.") as a Twitch Partnered Streamer.

#### What hardware do you use?

I use a good amount of equipment to stream and draw.

Starting with the necessary tools to illustrate, something simple like my portable [Bamboo tablet][bamboo] works wonders, and at home I use a [Cintiq 22HD][cintiq], which is not necessary when just starting but an amazing tool to have!

On the gaming side of things my [Astro headset][a50], and [SteelSeries keyboard][apex-350] are prime tools. I also use [Steelseries Arctis 7 headphones][arctis-7], depending on my location at the time - I travel quite a bit!

When it comes to my PC to do both aspects of my career, I run a home-built rig that lets me stream in high quality 1080p with no hassle, including an [Intel E3-1231 v3 processor][xeon-e3-1231-v3] & ZOTAC [GeForce GTX 1060][geforce-gtx-1060] Mini graphics card. Other than the tech itself, a good chair for support, and a smudge guard glove for my Cintiq are my main tools!

#### And what software?

Software for illustration consists of [Adobe Photoshop][photoshop] and [Adobe Illustrator][illustrator], though I'm more comfortable working in Photoshop. I have custom-made brushes for certain jobs, as well as purchased fonts to use for design. An important thing to remember when working in design is that you pay for good work, and you need to always check the usage rights of any image or font you may be purchasing!

Gaming software ranges depending on the game, and for actual streaming purposes I use [OBS][obs-studio], which is an excellent free of charge broadcasting software. I also use [Streamlabs][] & [Nightbot][] as primary streaming tools; they allow alerts, and addition content to be included in stream chat as well as live on screen!

#### What would be your dream setup?

My dream setup would probably include an office of my own, and a better lighting rig. Right now my lighting is a simple bulb behind my desk and room lights. I would also love to have one of the [Elgato Green Screens][green-screen] that store away when not in use, but they're currently out of stock for Canadian purchase. Otherwise, I'm really happy with what I have!

A fun fact about me is that 10% of my income goes to children's wellness organizations like [Child's Play](http://childsplaycharity.org/ "A video game-based charity."), as well as animal rescues like NYC Second Chance Rescue & MotleyZooCrew; I do charity streams to raise funds for organizations like these regularly!