---
title: Nick Heer
summary: Web designer, developer (Pixel Envy)
categories:
- designer
- developer
- mac
- web
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

Hey there, I'm Nick Heer. I'm enthusiastic about taking photographs, but I'm not a photographer. I've been writing [Pixel Envy](https://pxlnv.com/ "Nick's website.") for about seven years, but I'm not a writer either. I write "web designer/developer" in the *Occupation* field of official documents. I'm a professional converter of coffee into bytes.

I live right smack in the middle of Calgary.

#### What hardware do you use?

I have a maxed-out mid-2012 13-inch [MacBook Air][macbook-air] that still works very well, and it is connected to my [Thunderbolt Display][thunderbolt-display] about 95% of the time. I use one of Apple's aluminum Bluetooth keyboards and a second-generation Magic Trackpad.

I keep a lot of stuff connected to the Thunderbolt Display, including a 2 TB [Buffalo MiniStation][ministation-thunderbolt] which contains my fairly large [iTunes][] library. I also have a USB digital-to-analog converter that goes through an amplifier and powers a couple of bookshelf speakers -- tragically, [Bose][161] -- so the music I play actually sounds like, well, music.

I use a black [Caran D'Ache 849][849] and various notebooks for drafts, outlines, and general jotting.

I use a "Space Grey" [iPhone X][iphone-x] and an [iPad][] -- the 9.7-inch one that has no suffix.

I use a [Canonet QL-19 "New"][canonet-ql19] and a [Leica Q][q.2] to make photographs.

I use an [AeroPress][] to brew Monogram or Phil & Sebastian coffee.

#### And what software?

Websites are built using [Coda][], [Transmit][], and [TextMate][]. Because I started designing websites in the early 2000s, I still use [Photoshop][] (CS 5.1!) to create mockups and build graphics.

I write in [MarsEdit][].

I use [Fantastical][] to keep track of many days, [Things][] to keep track of what I need to do every day, and iTunes to keep my ears occupied all day long.

I waste time in [Slack][] and [Tweetbot][].

On my iPhone, I keep up with the news using [Reeder][reeder-ios], check how cold Calgary is using [Weather Line][weather-line-ios], and find out when the bus arrives using [Transit][transit-ios].

#### What would be your dream setup?

I'd like to have something faster and more capable for handling the very large RAW files off my camera, and being able to have Slack open in the background. The non-Touch Bar [MacBook Pro][macbook-pro] is very appealing -- especially when paired with a [5K display][ultrafine-5k] -- but I have worries about the keyboard's long-term reliability and I do wish it had an SD card slot. The 5K [iMac][] also looks tremendous, but I still want portability for that 5% of the time when I really need it. I guess I'll see what WWDC brings this year.

Truth be told, though, I'm still very happy with what I have. I replaced my last computer -- a 2007 MacBook Pro -- after five years, and it felt like it was on its last legs by that time. This MacBook Air still feels very fast most of the time, and does everything I ask of it. And the Thunderbolt Display is something I like so much that I [wrote an obituary for it](https://pxlnv.com/blog/requiem-thunderbolt-display/ "Nick's post about the Thunderbolt Display.") after Apple announced that they would no longer be making displays. They have since reversed that position -- thankfully.