---
title: Fran Hoepfner
summary: Associate Video Director (The Onion), stand-up comedian
categories:
- comedian
- director
- mac
- video
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm [Fran Hoepfner](https://franhoepfner.com/ "Fran's website."), and I'm a bunch of things. Professionally, I'm the Associate Video Director for The Onion. In addition, I work as a freelance culture writer as well as a stand-up comedian.

#### What hardware do you use?

At the office, I use a new [13" 2017 MacBook Air][macbook-air] that is provided for me; at home, I use a still very good 13" 2015 MacBook Air. I have an [iPhone 8][iphone-8] that I use even though I think my hands are marginally too small for its size. Despite almost constantly having headphones in, I just buy whatever earbuds are on sale at Target whenever a pair die out. I also wear a [Fitbit Alta][alta] in black. Though I use [Google Calendar][google-calendar] at work, I swear by Moleskine Planners for all of my personal appointments and commitments.

#### And what software?

I use [Final Draft 10][final-draft] to edit scripts at work (revisions mode is wonderful). I use [Trello][] to check in on projects. I use [Frame.io][] to leave notes in post-production. Much to my own dismay and distraction, I use [Slack][] to chat with coworkers and occasionally send assets more quickly. In addition, I use [G Suite][g-suite] ([Gmail][], [Google Documents][google-docs], and Google Calendar) to make some sense of what I'm doing from minute to minute. A lot of this carries over into my freelance and comedy work as well. When I'm writing or drafting essays and articles for publications, I'm always in Google Docs. A lot of my comedy is multimedia-based, and I use [Keynote][] to make presentations. To make my work life --- much of which is starting into screens all day --- more tolerable, I also use [f.lux][] to take some of the blues out of my screen. 

Because I often write about movies and occasionally television, I also have subscriptions to [Netflix][], [Amazon Prime][amazon-prime], [HBO Go][hbo-go], [Hulu][], and [FilmStruck][]. I love the [New York Times crossword app][nytimes-crosswords-ios] and I am trying to better my German using [Duolingo][duolingo-ios]. In the interest of fun and keeping track of what garbage I listen to, I have a [Spotify][] Premium account.

#### What would be your dream setup?

My ideal set-up is more or less what I have now, because I'm very lucky to be able to do the kind of work I do with the resources available to me. The only thing I'd add is a newfound interest in good headphones.