---
title: Laura Hall
summary: Artist, writer, puzzle and game designer
categories:
- artist
- designer
- game
- mac
- writer
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

My name is [Laura E. Hall](https://twitter.com/lauraehall "Laura's Twitter account.") -- I'm an artist, writer, puzzle-maker, and environmental narrative designer living in Portland, Oregon. Along with my producer, Nora Ryan, I run [Timberview Productions](https://www.timberviewproductions.com/ "Laura's game and interactive company."), a company building immersive games and interactive experiences. These run the gamut from intimate, narrative-guided puzzle adventures to massive online events streamed for players around the world. Our new location, Meridian Adventure Co., is opening in Portland later this year.

I’m a proud board member of the PDX non-profit [Portland Indie Game Squad](http://pigsquad.com/ "A non-profit group supporting game development in Portland.") and the [Enthusiasm Collective](https://enthusiasmcollective.com/ "A co-working space in Portland."), a pay-what-you-can workspace for artists and activists.

I’m also a writer and speaker. I focus primarily on the intersections between arts, culture, and technology, especially in gaming. I’m currently exploring the topics of environmental narrative design, Alternate Reality Games (ARGs), the future of virtual reality, and the magical potential of real-world physical gameplay. I wrote _Katamari Damacy_ for Boss Fight Books, out soon.

As an artist, I love creating [ephemera-based stories, environmental narratives, scavenger hunts, and mysteries](http://lauraehall.com/ "Laura's website.").

#### What hardware do you use?

I use a [MacBook Air][macbook-air] and an [iPhone 6][iphone-6], plus a Windows PC setup at home for playing games and VR (mostly [HTC Vive][vive]). I have a [Nikon D5100][d5100] and a little [Canon EOS 60D][eos-60d] for snapshots, although I mostly use my iPhone for photos now. I recently got a [Fujifilm instax mini 9][instax-mini-9] and love playing with it. I have a [Kindle Paperwhite][kindle-paperwhite] and am getting back into the habit of reading a book a week.

For designing and brainstorming, I use a double-sided whiteboard and set of colored Expo markers. Everything that goes onto the whiteboard is in service of some work product, be it a talk, a brief, or a design, so we take photos and archive them but happily I rarely need to reference them. I'm always grateful they exist when I do, though.

I use a red Moleskine notebook for note-taking and lists. Until I started using Moleskines (about 5 years ago) I never managed to fill a journal. Now I go through a few a year.

Whenever I find a pen or pencil I really like the feel of, I buy them in bulk. Right now I like [InkJoy 300RT][inkjoy-300rt] ballpoint pens, but I also like writing with whatever pens I pick up at the bank or doctor’s office. I use Pentel Click mechanical pencils and Tombow Fudenosuke brush pens for drawings and diagrams. Sharpies and index cards are indispensable for prototyping game ideas.

There's a lot of tech that goes into the escape rooms we create. We use [Raspberry Pis][raspberry-pi], [Arduinos][arduino], [Android][] devices, and Macs, plus cameras for monitoring gameplay. The escape rooms also use mechanical components like switches and electromagnets.

For the escape room game buildouts, we use typical workshop and woodworking tools, plywood, and foam board, plus whatever other materials are necessary to create a specific atmosphere.

It's like crafting a theater set, in that it has to look and feel right, but not be too real. As an example, a real office is probably pretty boring, with fluorescent lights and cubicles and random piles of paper. So we have to craft something that feels like an office, but one you’d see in a movie, or come across in an adventure. It also has to be pretty indestructible, because so many people are going to be interacting with it.

#### And what software?

Our company uses [Asana][], [G Suite][g-suite], and [Slack][] for just about everything. We use weekly kanban boards and set up capture boxes so that nothing ever falls through the cracks, supplemented with weekly meetings to set goals and work through projects or backlog tasks.

We use [OmniGraffle][] for outlining story and user flows, plus [Adobe Photoshop][photoshop] and [Illustrator][] for graphic design and layouts, and SketchUp for 3D modeling.

#### What would be your dream setup?

I'd love to have a massive workshop with loads of fancy and expensive specialty tools (plus a budget to pay those specialists), attached to a bustling shared community workspace that's open to all, within which I have a private office with a door I can close for concentration.
