---
title: Philipp Stollenmayer
summary: Mobile game designer (Okay?, Zip Zap, Pancake - The Game)
categories:
- developer
- game
- mac
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

My name is [Philipp Stollenmayer](http://www.kamibox.de/ "Philipp's website."), and I'm a mobile game designer. My most popular ones are [Okay?][okay-ios], [Zip Zap][zip-zap], and [Pancake - The Game][pancake-the-game-ios].

#### What hardware do you use?

I have a 13" [MacBook Pro][macbook-pro] (Mid 2014), and a [Magic Mouse][magic-mouse]. That's it basically, no external screens, no stands, no graphic tablet. Every 100 years, I use my [Time Machine][time-machine] for a backup.

I test my games on an [iPhone X][iphone-x], an [iPhone 6][iphone-6], an [iPhone 4S][iphone-4s], an [iPod 3G][ipod-touch], an [iPad Mini][ipad-mini] and an [iPad Air 2][ipad-air-2]. On the [Android][] side, I have a [Moto X][moto-x], because it works with [Google Daydream][daydream], and a [Samsung Galaxy S2][galaxy-s2].

I try to make my games work on pretty old phones - that also makes debugging memory leaks easier.

#### And what software?

All of my games have been made with [Corona SDK][corona]. I love it because it's super easy and super fast, and it cuts out all the unimportant and complicated stuff. [Box2D][] physics are built-in, so I don't have to use any plugins. When it comes to programming I don't want anything but the original code, to have as little potential for traps as possible.

For code editing I use [Sublime Text][sublime-text], and I always have only two code files: main.lua is the game itself, and data.lua is all data like the levels, texts, colors etc. A bit like HTML and CSS.

But for my next games I'm also learning [Unity][], to be able to make 3D games.

For image editing, I use [Illustrator CS6][illustrator] and [Photoshop CS6][photoshop], because I can't see why I should pay for those on a subscription basis. Normally I design my icons and stuff in Illustrator, to put together into a spritesheet in Photoshop.

I make the trailers with [After Effects CS5.5][after-effects] and [Premiere CS5.5][premiere]. I hope I can find a nice substitute for After Effects when it stops working because it's too old.

#### What would be your dream setup?

I'm a huge fan of space, so I have the smallest MacBook Pro, and only the minimum requirements. My hard drive is constantly full, but before I get a new MacBook Pro I have to become friends with USB-C. I like the satisfying magnetic pull of MagSafe too much, and don't want to own 100 adapters.

The [Creative Suite][creative-suite] is nice, but it is a shame that it can't be bought any more. I hate running costs, so I would rather use CS6 forever, but I fear that it will some day refuse to work anymore. Should try [Affinity][affinity-designer] instead.