---
title: Paige Icardi
summary: Home cook, future yoga teacher
categories:
- chef
- mac
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

Hi! My name is Paige Icardi. What I do currently is drastically different than what I've been doing for the past 5 years. 

Previously I was extremely immersed in the food industry via Bi-Rite Market in San Francisco. It's a wonderful specialty grocery store that prides itself in curating the most high-quality, thoughtful and amazing tasting food, whether it's the produce, meat or unique pantry goods. 

My start there was originally as a cashier and turned into one of those situations where I moved on up for the next two years, eventually to a store manager and then maintained that position for three more years. I've always loved food and cooking - something that I still was heavily involved in even as a store manager - but still never saw myself in a management role. 

It took me two years of stress and one year of being extremely ill to finally have the sense to quit.

That leads to me what I currently do. While I continue my recovery, I've been practicing a lot of yoga, which has done a great deal for helping me with pain management. It has been such an integral part of my life now, so much so that I also wanted to quit so I could study yoga more and eventually teach it too. 

Since I'm technically unemployed, I've also been keeping myself busy and making some money cooking for a family that shops at the market. For her and her family I cook a handful of meals and recipes that fit their diets with only ingredients from Bi-Rite, which makes me happy that I still have some sort of tie to the store. It's been a really wonderful way to keep busy doing something I'm very passionate about, and to make a little extra money on the side. 

### What hardware do you use?

Currently my hardware consists of my yoga mat, some props and cozy clothes. I absolutely love the yoga brand, Alo Yoga, which is where my mat is from, along with lots of my comfy leggings. I live on their mat, and am currently typing this atop it. 

I also get a lot of help from my [MacBook Air][macbook-air] and [iPhone 8][iphone-8]. Despite my age and generation, I'm not the most technologically savvy and like to keep it simple. 

#### And what software?

I actually use a fantastic app/website to take yoga classes when I'm not practicing alone called [Alo Moves][alo-moves], formally known as CodyApp. It's way more affordable than going to yoga classes in San Francisco, and I absolutely love the variety of amazing teachers and types of yoga it has to offer. 

#### What would be your dream setup?

My dream set up consists of having my own space for me to practice. All I want in a space is peace and quiet, plenty of room/wall space - and hardwood floors! Right now I'm currently in a living room in a 1 bedroom apartment and, while my husband and I are luckier than most to have a roomier apartment, it's still cramped and we would benefit from a little more space. We have been discussing for quite some time now the idea of buying a house, potentially in the Pacific Northwest, so the dream setup will hopefully become a reality sooner than later.

[iphone-8]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IPhone_8 "A 4.7 inch smartphone."
[macbook-air]: https://www.apple.com/macbook-air/ "A very thin laptop."
[alo-moves]: https://www.alomoves.com/ "A service providing online yoga classes."
