---
title: Patrick Ewing
summary: Game designer (Firewatch)
categories:
- developer
- game
- windows
---

### Who are you, and what do you do?

My name is [Patrick Ewing](https://twitter.com/hoverbird "Patrick's Twitter account."), and I'm a narrative game designer, Twitter Eng veteran and recovering Ruby programmer.

I helped make [Firewatch][] along with the good citizens of Campo Santo, and I'm currently making a game about the future of cities, AI, and emotional survival. You play as a Lyft/Uber driver struggling to stay alive on her star rating, as autonomous cars take over the streets. It will be very difficult, and at times sad, but also very funny, I hope.

### What hardware do you use?

For the bulk of my development, I'm using a custom-built PC: Intel i7 CPU, two [GTX 1080ti][geforce-gtx-1080-ti] GPUs that are SLI'd together, yadda yadda yadda. I built it just after Firewatch shipped, when I thought making an adventure game in VR might be a good idea. I quickly decided against this, and it's now way-overpowered for the kind of game we're building instead.

I use two 4K displays from LG, a [Das Keyboard][model-s-professional] with Cherry MX switches with some lovely "trans colored" pink and blue pastel key-caps, and some cheesy wireless gaming mouse I wouldn't recommend to anybody. I'm using a [Jarvis adjustable-height standing desk][jarvis-bamboo] and a [Focal mono-pod stool][mobis-i] for when standing gets old.

### And what software?

I'm using [Windows 10][windows-10], because Video Games. Not a day goes by that I don't curse this life that I've chosen. It's an inferior OS in almost every way that I use because Apple doesn't ship computers with modern GPUs.

My team (we're called [Chance Agency](http://www.chanceagency.com/ "Patrick's game studio.")) uses [Slack][] for all our creative coordination, and [appear.in][] for video conferencing.

We're building out game in [Unity][] 2017, using [ink][] as our narrative scripting language and [Spine][] for our animated characters. I write code in [Visual Studio][visual-studio], [VS Code][visual-studio-code] and [Sublime Text][sublime-text], depending on what language I'm in. [Git][] with [Git LFS][git-large-file-storage] for version control.

### What would be your dream setup?

My dream setup would be a collaborative physical computing environment, something like [Dynamicland](https://dynamicland.org/ "A research group working on a new computing medium.") that worked remotely. I was to lay code components out on a table and see my coworkers physically rearrange them to make new connections. I want our version control to be incorporated into the 3D game environment. I want to set up a scene by manipulating game objects with my hands, like Timoni's [amazing Unity VR demos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FzjxRi5J4XI "A YouTube video of a Unity VR editor tool demo."). 

This is a little more far-fetched, but I'd also love a Mac laptop that can run 3D games at 60fps.