---
title: Nathan Edwards
summary: Senior Editor (Wirecutter)
categories:
- editor
- mac
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

Hi! I'm [Nathan Edwards](http://about.me/nedwards "Nathan's website."), and I'm a senior editor at [Wirecutter](http://www.thewirecutter.com/ "A product review site."), a product reviews website now owned by The New York Times Company. I oversee a bunch of beats including PCs, computer accessories, gaming, networking, and pet gear. I've recently edited articles on automatic pet feeders, game controllers, Wi-Fi extenders, and ultrabooks.

#### What hardware do you use?

My phone is a [Google Pixel XL][pixel-xl]. I like Pixels because they get fast Android updates and monthly security patches, and the cameras are good enough to catch toddler shenanigans.

I've worked from home for five and half years, so I have a pretty solid setup, most of it current or former Wirecutter picks. For work I use a company-issued 13-inch Touchbar [MacBook Pro][macbook-pro], but mostly as a desktop, because of its [pizza-box keyboard](https://theoutline.com/post/2402/the-new-macbook-keyboard-is-ruining-my-life?zd=2&zi=eeg43jqh "An article about the keyboards on the Touchbar MacBook Pros.") and bad battery life. I have a [Satechi Thunderbolt 3 hub][multi-port-adapter-4k-with-ethernet] plugged into it that goes to a USB switcher that goes to the USB hub on my [Dell U2715H][ultrasharp-u2715h] monitor. Plugged into _that_ are my keyboard ([Leopold FC660C][fc660c]), mouse ([Logitech MX Master][mx-master]), webcam ([Logitech C920][hd-pro-webcam-c920]), and my USB mic ([Blue Yeti][yeti]) which has a pair of [Sony MDR-7506][mdr-7506] headphones connected to it. The USB switcher is also connected to my desktop PC, so I can use all the same peripherals, and switch between computers with three button presses. I also have a Muji planner and a couple of gel pens I really like. And a Pomodoro timer shaped like a tomato. I love Field Notes; I got a subscription to their quarterly plan for one year about five years ago and I'm still working my way through the surplus. I have a sit-stand desk that mostly sits.

The desktop is self-built, mostly circa mid-2012, with an [Intel i7-2600K][core-i7-2600k] and 16GB of RAM, a [GTX 1070][geforce-gtx-1070] graphics card, a 3TB spinny drive and a couple of SSDs. I built it when I left Maximum PC (a print magazine about desktop computers, with a defunct website), and used it for work and gaming until I got a work computer for the former and kids that mostly prevent the latter. When I game at all now it's on a [Nintendo Switch][switch.2], which is maybe the best gadget I've bought in years.

#### And what software?

Since I use an Android phone, a Mac laptop, and a Windows PC, I love cross-platform apps. At Wirecutter we use the [Google suite][google-apps]: [Gmail][], [Docs][google-docs], [Sheets][google-sheets], etc. [Slack][] is crucial, since so many of us work remotely. We use [Airtable][] for a bunch of organizational stuff and [Zoom][] for video meetings. I use [Simplenote][] for, uh, simple notes, and my to-do list is split between [Todoist][], my paper planner, various post-it notes, Slackbot reminders, and people reminding me that I owe them edits. It's a very elegant system.

Patrick Ewing's "[Warm Focus](https://open.spotify.com/user/1214811245/playlist/0EycVcG7lpVb8AzeUk064S?si=oNEe0-D5T46UiNDcHZ9LfQ "Patrick's Spotify playlist from his radio show.")" playlists on [Spotify][] are great instrumental music for working with words. [Pocket][] is for saving articles so I don't get sidetracked, and then never looking at them again. Mobile apps: [Twitter][twitter-android] is for nonsense, [Instagram][instagram-android] is for pictures of babies and pets, and [Stronglifts 5x5][stronglifts-5x5-android] is for slowly transforming into a less noodly noodle.

#### What would be your dream setup?

Pretty much the same thing except with a KVM switch built in to the monitor. Maybe a functioning attention span.