---
title: Carta Monir
summary: Cartoonist, podcaster
categories:
- cartoonist
- podcaster
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

My name is [Carta Monir](http://cartamonir.com/ "Carta's website.") - I'm a cartoonist and podcast host living in Ann Arbor, MI. I'm also just starting to print other people's comics. I make my money primarily from freelance art and writing assignments.

My podcast is called [_We Should Be Friends_](https://soundcloud.com/we-should-be-friends "Carta's podcast.") - it's a book club podcast where we focus on a different indie cartoonist each episode.

#### What hardware do you use?

For making comics, I generally draw on paper using traditional methods, then scan it into my HP Spectre laptop. It has a pressure-sensitive stylus that works with the screen directly, so I'm able to edit the work and add tone without attaching an external tablet. From there I send it off to my editor, or print it on a cheap laser printer and scan it into my [Risograph GR 3770][gr-3770] machine, which I use to print posters/zines if I'm doing them myself. I just got my hands on a [Martin Yale 1501][1501x] paper folder, which I bought second-hand from a lawyer in my area. It's a game-changer because I can fold hundreds of pages a minute with very high consistency!

#### And what software?

Almost exclusively [Photoshop][] CS5. I've had it since college, and it still works perfectly for my needs. I'll use [Illustrator][] occasionally, but mostly I stick to Photoshop. I use Kyle Webster brushes for inking/tone if it applies to my current project.

#### What would be your dream setup?

I would really like to get a fancy electric booklet stapler, but my setup as it currently exists is already better than anything I could have hoped for. I'm very lucky! My bedroom looks like a state-of-the art print studio from 20 years ago!!