---
title: Samantha Vilkins
summary: Communications and Engagement Officer (ANU), PhD candidate
categories:
- mac
- researcher
- student
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

I wear a lot of hats. That's an idiom, not my job. I'm a PhD candidate in science communication and also the Communications and Engagement Officer at the [Australian National Centre for the Public Awareness of Science](http://cpas.anu.edu.au/about-us/people/sam-vilkins "Samantha's profile on ANU.") at The Australian National University, where I also tutor, write, et cetera. I also do freelance [photography/design/writing](http://vilkins.online/ "Samantha's website.") where I can. I just finished up working at [Trove at the National Library of Australia](https://trove.nla.gov.au/ "An Australian information resource from the National Library.") and I've [got the mug to prove it](https://twitter.com/samvilkins/status/968329704594968576 "Samantha's Trove mug tweet.").

#### What hardware do you use?

I exclusively use [Pilot G2 0.38 pens][g2.2]. They are a great solution between "using shit pens" and "caring way too much about pens". I use the pens in notebooks from Octaevo. I'd prefer to type notes into my phone but I end up in meetings with people much older than me a lot and the youngest person in the room constantly tapping at their phone isn't a great look. I also think better on paper.

My laptop is a late 2013 [MacBook Pro][macbook-pro] with 16GB of RAM. I'm the sort of monster who cracks open [Photoshop][] to resize a screenshot on the bus, so I'm not sure what I'd do without it.

I've got a fancy [Rain Design mStand][mstand] alongside a [fuzzy Acer monitor at home][k242hqlcbid], and a glorious [Dell UltraSharp][ultrasharp-u2715h] alongside a pile of old books as a stand at work, because I'm all about balance.

I own two WASD mechanical keyboards, [the same model][vp3-61-key]. One's [Cherry MX clears all-white with mint legends and a mint Enter key that reads 'GO!'](https://twitter.com/samvilkins/status/978758348538503169 "Samantha's tweet showing her mechanical keyboard with green keys."), and the other is [Cherry MX browns, greyscale with bright yellow keys spelling out my name](https://twitter.com/samvilkins/status/885374232384765952 "Samantha's tweet showing her mechanical keyboard with brown keys."). I adore them.

My camera's a [Canon 60D][eos-60d] and my go-to lenses are my [24mm][ef-s-24mm-f2.8-stm] / [50mm][ef-50mm-f1.4-usm] / [85mm][ef-85mm-f1.8-usm] primes.

I bought a second-hand rose gold "women's" [Moto360 v2][moto-360-2nd-generation] and wear it every day. It can do almost nothing --- it's as if I tore out the notification light of my [Pixel 2][pixel-2] and strung it round my wrist --- but it looks good, starts conversations, alerts me to things while it's rude to look at my phone or it's not on my person, and most importantly, I can set the background to my favourite green and set the text to spell out the time in letters which takes me longer to process than a digital face and thus entertains me to no end.

I care so little about audio quality that a few years ago I bought 4 packs of LG G2 headphones off [eBay][] and keep a pair in various bags and desks. I also just bought a pair of [white BlueAnt wireless headphones][pump-air] because my new phone lacks a headphone jack and I hate how much I love them.

I've got a [Blue Yeti USB microphone][yeti] for when I inevitably start a podcast.

I was recently fitted for new multifocal glasses, because we all have to face our ageing mortal bodies in our own ways.

I use one ModernCoup bag for every occasion. I love it to death even as it's destroying my back.

I've got Aglaonema commutatum, Spathiphyllum petite and Parlour palm plants from Plants in a Box and a Pothos plant from The Name Is Planted at my desk in a long con I've got to make me want to come to work each day to check on them.

I've got a plush office chair I stole (okay, they were giving it away) from my university, wheeled a quarter-way across campus in the rain, and had to re-construct my desk around as my room is too small to fit it otherwise. It was worth it.

#### And what software?

I am constantly gaining and shedding bits of software, either for specific research kicks or life admin --- the latest were [gensim][], [sndpeek][] and [1Password][].

As a baseline, my vital organs are hooked into the Google ecosystem --- 16 separate [Calendars][google-calendar], [Maps][google-maps] multiple times a day, autobackup [Photos][google-photos], [Sheets][google-sheets] abound, [Keep][google-keep] for every thought. Quick thoughts from Keep get regularly sorted out to: reminders/events in Calendar, saved/tagged links in [Pocket][], or drafts/ideas in a folder in [iA Writer][ia-writer]. The iA Writer folder is in my [Google Drive][google-drive] so it's on my phone, as well.

I use [Papers][] for research and references, but only because it actively frustrates me the least out of the options.

I use the [macOS][] [Mail][] app to deal with my 4+ regular email addresses and I would love to upgrade to something nicer but absolutely everything else has failed me, so here we still are.

I use [Tweetbot][] because [TweetDeck][] crossed me one too many times.

I use [Spotify][] lazily and [Pocket Casts][pocket-casts] earnestly. I keep a [Shazam][] widget on my phone homepage so I can use it inconspicuously when around cool youth. My other widgets are my Outlook calendar, Google calendar, and Google Keep. The [BOM Weather app][bom-weather-android] is crucial.

I was gifted a copy of Adobe Photoshop CS2 when I was eleven years old and doubt I've closed it since then. I use [Lightroom][]/[Premiere][]/[Illustrator][]/[InDesign][] when it comes to it, all on a [CC][creative-suite] subscription.

Any and all programming I do is extremely amateur hour and usually in [Notepad++][notepad-plusplus] or [TextWrangler][]. I'll dip into [R][] when I have to but I use [Excel][] to within an inch of its life.

I have a rotating [new-font/new-colour-palette][palettab] new tab page, and I'd recommend it.

#### What would be your dream setup?

Always more light and less carpet.