---
title: Jess Allison
summary: Organiser, producer, delivery manager (Paper Giant)
categories:
- mac
- manager
- producer
- web
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

Hello! I'm [Jess](http://jessallison.com/ "Jess' website."). Sometimes known as Jalli. I've been a Digital Producer forever (okay, ten years) but I've recently taken a side-step into [Service Design](https://medium.com/@shahrsays/so-what-actually-is-service-design-e0ed602b77a9 "A Medium article explaining service design.") and become a Delivery Manager at [Paper Giant](http://papergiant.net/ "A design consultancy in Melbourne."). It's ace.

In most iterations of my career, I've helped creative people bring their work to fruition --- graphic designers, web developers, photographers, film editors, [slashies](https://www.smh.com.au/national/straddle-not-struggle-as-slashies-prove-ultimate-multi-taskers-20110422-1drhg.html "A Sydney Morning Herald article about 'slashies.'"), and now service designers. My superpower is finding the delicate balance between providing guidance and process, while leaving space for them to do their thing, and communicating Just The Right Amount to any clients and other stakeholders.

I'm an eternal optimist, and yet I'm always playing out worse case scenarios. You might think these things are mutually exclusive but [this person](http://organicacupunctureportland.com/on-optimism-the-secret-and-why-preparing-for-the-worst-case-scenario-doesnt-make-you-a-curmudgeony-curmudgeon/ "An article about worst case scenarios and optimism.") put it well: "...sometimes just knowing you'll be fine regardless of how things go, can take the edge off the uncertainty and actually alleviate some anxiety."

I'm annoyingly organised.

In my spare time I listen to podcasts, take photos, and generally try to have a positive influence on the world. Some days that means making a [donation][kiva], and others it's a batch of choc chip cookies.

I have an [ESFJ personality](https://www.16personalities.com/esfj-personality "An article describing the ESFJ personality.") (I think), and [Enneagram Type Two](https://www.enneagraminstitute.com/type-2/ "An article explaning the Ennegram Type Two.") (for sure). My spirit animal is the squirrel.

#### What hardware do you use?

I'm currently rocking a [13" MacBook Air][macbook-air] and an [iPhone 6][iphone-6]. Part of me wants to try [Android][] when this iPhone dies, but I'm married to Apple and the divorce would be messy.

My [Fuji X-T10][x-t10] was purposefully too advanced for my level of photography when I bought it, and has helped me lift my game.

#### And what software?

My essentials are:

  * [G Suite][g-suite] for mail, calendar, docs and spreadsheets.
  * [TextEdit][] for writing basically everything before it becomes an email or graduates to [Google Docs][google-docs].
  * [Slack][] for work chat, keeping up with old colleagues/friends, and the `/remind` function for timely to-dos
  * [1Password][] for password management, synced via Dropbox across the [iOS app][1password-ios] and [Chrome][] browser extension.
  * [Dropbox][] for personal file storage, including cloud photo backups.
  * [Trello][] for project management, which extends to side projects, domestic, and life goals.
  * [SizeUp][] to quickly resize and position windows. I use this constantly.
  * [Lightroom][]/[Photoshop][] for photo editing and image manipulation.
  * [Sublime Text][sublime-text] for the rare occasions I need to code.

Chrome extensions:

  * [Just Not Sorry][just-not-sorry] is a [Gmail][] plugin that encourages confident language
  * [Awesome Screenshot][awesome-screenshot] to capture, crop and annotate screenshots
  * [Window Resizer][window-resizer] to quickly check sites in different resolutions
  * [Momentum][momentum.2] displays a photo and your daily focus each time you open a new tab

I also sign into Chrome to sync my bookmarks and browsing history so I can refer to things between devices.

My iOS favourites are:

  * [Sleep Cycle][sleep-cycle-ios] to track my sleeping patterns
  * [Notes][notes-ios] app for personal to-dos (super lo-fi but it works well!)
  * [iBooks][ibooks-ios] to download samples of books I want to read, then eventually the books themselves
  * [Pinterest][pinterest-ios] for creating personal mood boards, house inspiration, fashion stuff, and saving recipes
  * [Out of Milk][out-of-milk-ios] for the shared grocery list
  * [Google Keep][google-keep-ios] for the shared to-do list (films to watch, exhibitions to check out, photo excursion ideas, bars/restaurants to try...)

It sounds like chaos but these apps and systems all play a part in helping me Get Things Done... and fend against those pesky worst case scenarios.

#### What would be your dream setup?

Digitally, it would be unlimited internet speed and cloud storage.

Ergonomically, I would love a [standing desk][float] (hey, if [it's good enough for Hemingway](https://www.theparisreview.org/interviews/4825/ernest-hemingway-the-art-of-fiction-no-21-ernest-hemingway "An interview with Ernest Hemingway.")), more plants and less screen time.

Stopping to think about my dream setup just made me realise how achievable it is. I'm going to start by wrapping this up and hopping off the computer!