---
title: Zach Gage
summary: Game developer, artist
categories:
- artist
- developer
- game
- mac
---

#### Who are you, and what do you do?

My name is [Zach Gage](http://www.stfj.net/ "Zach's website."), I make videogames and art.

#### What hardware do you use?

I actually just did a total overhaul on my extremely-aged digital setup a few months ago so it's all probably a little boring --- I use a [13" 2017 MacBook Pro][macbook-pro], a [5K LG UltraFine display][ultrafine-5k]. I prop my MacBook up on an old [IndieBox](hhttps://store.theindiebox.com/ "An indie game subscription service.") box. I keep cool with a [Vornado Zippi fan][zippi] which was harvested from a friend's company when they moved offices. It sounds exactly like a physical hard-drive reading and writing a ton of data when it's on. I also have an old Vew-Do balance board for keeping me focused on long calls. 

I work at a standing desk that is built out of a desk my dad made a long time ago with some MultiTable legs on it. I use a [Drobo 5N2][5n2] for backup.

I use a [Magic Mouse 2][magic-mouse-2] and a [Apple extended keyboard][keyboard] (wired).

#### And what software?

I develop my games with [Unity][], [Visual Studio][visual-studio], [Dash][], and obviously [Xcode][]. 

For the art and web stuff I use [Adobe Creative Cloud][creative-cloud] (mostly [Photoshop][] and [Illustrator][]. Sometimes [Dreamweaver][] and [InDesign][]) and [Glyphs][] (in most of my games I use fonts as my sprite-sheets so I can use [Text Mesh Pro][text-mesh-pro] to handle their scaling).

For day to day FTP stuff I use [Transmit][] and sometimes [Coda][].

For font management (super important!) I use [FontExplorer X][fontexplorer-x].

For building sound effects I use [Logic Pro X][logic-pro]. 

For trailers, [Final Cut Pro X][final-cut-pro-x].

[Direct Mail][direct-mail] is a lifesaver for sending out big press blasts.

I spend a lot of time on [Slack][] to keep my sanity while working alone in my apartment. Also [Tweetbot][] helps there.

I keep all my to-do lists in [TextEdit][].

[Backblaze][] has saved my bacon once or twice.

[ColorSnapper 2][colorsnapper] is so handy for matching colors when moving between Unity and the Adobe products.

And [Fantastical 2][fantastical] keeps my schedule organized!

#### What would be your dream setup?

I wish my NAS could run [Plex][] adequately, I had an external thunderbolt GPU for my laptop, and someone would come over with a magic box that would compile my Xcode builds faster.